An Appeal to All

     Well, I've seen a little of it all .. I've seen the days of free sharing
 of information. I've seen the days before and after in the scene, as have
many others.  It is for this reason that I am not anywhere near as active 
as I used to be.

     Whatever happened to the days when you could ask a question
about a system, need sources for equipment, and get software without
having to bow down to the "groups" that either charge fees, (which is 
against what the scene is all about,) or have their noses stuck high in the
air forcing others to grovel at their feet for a few tidbits of information??

     Whatever happened to the days when people were willing to 
teach others about H/P??  The teachings were how the scene kept growing
with quality people.  These days most everyone learns from text files, and
many of these same people, although never actually putting any of their
 information to use, profess themselves as experts?

     How have we been so stupid as to put ourselves on this track?
Between |<-Ra|> l00serz and c0dez kidz the scene has gotten to the point
where I thought about just jumping ship.  I didn't however, because I knew
that there were still some good people out there .. Some people who are
still willing and able to carry on the traditions.

     I was born a little too late to take advantage of some of the great
things that came along in the 70's and early 80's .. Hell, I didn't even get
into the scene until 1986.  Some people ask why I came in .. It was because
after reading about what many had done in the past, I wanted to take the 
same path and discover what there was to learn in MY generation of
 H/Pers .. I wish I had not come in at the beginning of the downswing.  God,
how I wish I could of been there in the heyday of Lex Luthor, Captain
Crunch, and the like.  That cannot be changed, but our future can.

     The scene can still be brought back to it's former glory.  It would
take serious work from all of us who still sincerely believe in it.  Maybe
it cannot be done, maybe it can succeed.  The only way for us to find out is
to try.

     This is a call out to all of you out there.  Do your part.  Take and 
convert a k0dez-kid into a sincere member of the group by showing them 
what respect and hard work will get them.  Or, find someone interested in 
learning and TEACH THEM!!  

     This call goes out to everyone from the long-gone past right up to
the moment you read this.  Wether you are a H/P, or even a pirate. 
Everyone from TK and KL all the way up to people such as 
Midnight Sorrow, Visionary, Captain Riker, and Deicide.

     Remember, this is your future you are helping to build .. Make it
a good one for our own sake.


                                        Kodiak (413)
