                        14 Digit Hacking


Well boys and girls, it would seem my predictions of increased
telco security has come true. In 1986 I predicted that within 2
years all of the telcos would move to the 14 digit format. This
because of their inability to protect their systems from us -
phreaks. Take Heart!!  We're not dead yet. 

Those of you who have read my book, The Phreaker's Handbook or
Phreak's Long Distance Phone Thieves have a handle on what's
up. This is the news on increased telcom security as of Oct 1987.

                             Allnet

Allnet is going hog wild with their new software analysis
package. They've cut the maximum amount of time you can stay on a
code down to three days. It depends on when you whack it. They do
not run the software on Fri, Sat, or Sun. So if you whack the
code on Friday, it will stay good until Monday around 1 P.M.
Pacific Standard Time. If you bang them during the week, you'll
lose the code in less than 24 hours.

                               Mci

If your first love was the 5 digit Mci Node, say bye bye. They
are slowly dismantling the local dialup network and keeping the
950-0222 nodes which incidentally are 14 digit At&t 0+ format.
In the last year my return rates have dropped from 5 per hundred
to 1 per 300. Rather pathetic. And that was multinode, multi
destination hacking. Incidentally, another one of my innovations
that came about in May of 1986 when they installed the first
version of the monitoring software.

                             Sprint

You can start kissing off those 9 digit codes. Sprint's new FON
system is totally 14 digits and can only be accessed thru an 800
number. For which there is a 55 cent surcharge most of which goes
to At&t. Sprint is going to let Ma Bell provide their security
for them. They say they aren't going to issue the 9 digit codes
anymore. They aren't killing all the codes at once though. We
still have time to play with Sprint. I think they're going to
kick back and see what they results of the FON project. If for no
reason other than the expense of 55cents just for the privilege
of placing a call, I recommend everyone discontinue their Sprint
accounts and go to another company. Incidentally, the "increased
quality" of the new fiber optic network can't be that great when
you consider that you have to connect and downconnect to your
destination on the hold copper wire networks owned by your local
telco. Hardly worth 55 cents.

                           Metrophone

I know of no one who's gotten a code off of Metro in over a year.
This used to be the whore of the networks. She never said no. Now
she never says yes.

                          Skyline (mci)

950-1088 I've seen codes posted in remote areas for this service.
Have not heard of, or been able to bag one code in the large
metro areas. Mci appears to be killing this node and routing to
the 1022 node again 14 digits.


The problem of whacking 14 digit codes is that of possibilities.
There are 14x14 possible combinations of numbers. This makes it
practically, which any predictable regularity to hack out the
code. We can resort to that old standard (created by me) of
prefix hacking. The attached file is for the entire Southern
California Area. It includes the area code and prefixes used
here. They are all valid and courtesy of Pacific and General
Telephone companies. These 6 digits will reduce the possibilities
down to 8x8. This is a pain in the ass, but it is possible.
This scenario will work with any telco that uses valid phone
numbers as part of the code. DO NOT HACK YOUR LOCAL TELCO OR AT&T
unless you're equipped to do it from a fortress phone (pay
phone). Ess will pick up your actions at you'll have a phone
truck in front of your house within 30 minutes. Trust me, I did
it, and a knew better too. Nothing came of it other than I went
in the bathroom and kicked myself in the ass for being so dumb!

I want you to think of the prefix file as a chain file. Add all
the prefixes in your local area to it, area codes too please.
In a couple of months I want to see this thing back in the
Southern California Area busting at the seams. 

Ok, what do we do with those companies that use bastardized
routines for their codes. The Ustel format uses 527 for the 818
area. The new FON card uses 524 for 818. Both companies are now
owned by Sprint so we can see a similarity in the thought
processes here can't we? I'm starting a separate file with the
first six digits of the Fon Card and Another one for the Ustel.
US/Sprint is on the 9501033 node and uses the 0+ At&t format
I've your partial to 800's go for the Fon's. I personally leave
800's alone.

If you're inclined to cancel your Ustel or Sprint accounts, add
your first six digits to the list and put it back in the archive
file. This is the only way we're going to crack the bastards,
group effort at data collection.

There is one other possibility. The 14 digit code is the product
of a formula called a "hashing formula" By entering the first
10 digits of the card it will generate a 4 digit security code.
It also relates to the logical record location within the telco's
computer system. If anyone has this formula, and has no love for
the phone companies....get this sucker into circulation.


Good luck guys...more updates available as the news developes.



Bobo T. Hacker
aka Robert Morgan.




