Bill Jones - AT&T Secure Communications Systems
919-279-6511 (office)

FOR RELEASE THURSDAY, DECEMBER 17, 1992

ANTEL COMMUNICATIONS TO SUPPLY AT&T SECURE CELLULAR TELEPHONES

     GREENSBORO, N.C. -- AT&T has selected Antel Communications
Corp. to supply new cellular telephones that function with AT&T's
recently announced Cellular Privacy System.
     Antel, based in Hauppauge, N.Y., will supply a line of cel-
lular telephones specially adapted for use with AT&T's cellular
privacy technology.  Antel is a major manufacturer and
distributor of cellular telephones in the United States and
around the world.
     "AT&T and Antel make the ideal team to produce our first
privacy-capable cellular telephone, the AT&T Model 9000," said
Ed Hickey, AT&T Vice President, Secure Communications Systems.
     The AT&T Model 9000 Privacy-Capable Cellular Phone will be
manufactured to AT&T's specifications by Antel.  It will be
available in February.
     Antel President Louis Antoniou said the agreement with AT&T
represents a unique opportunity for Antel to combine its exper-
tise in technology sourcing, marketing and distribution with
AT&T's cellular privacy technology."
     The AT&T Cellular Privacy System protects calls by
scrambling the cellular telephone's over-the-air signal.  The
signal is descrambled at the cellular carrier's switch, trans-
mitting a conventional phone signal to the recipient.
     The AT&T Model 9000 Privacy-Capable Cellular Telephone, an
8.9-ounce portable model, is a full-featured third-generation
phone.  In addition to its sleek styling and easy operation, the
Model 9000 offers a 100-number alphanumeric memory and multiple
phone number (NAM) operation.
     The optional privacy unit and its extended battery add less
than six ounces to the weight of the phone.  The module and bat-
tery add about a half inch to the depth of the phone.
     Suggested retail price of the Model 9000 is $795.  The op-
tional privacy unit retails for $895.
     The AT&T Model 9000 will be backed by extensive customer
support and a nationwide network of service centers.  The phone
comes with a two-year warranty.
     The AT&T Cellular Privacy System was developed by AT&T
Secure Communications Systems, a world leader in the design,
manufacture and integration of encryption and privacy products.
It is a leading supplier of secure products to the governments
of the United States and other nations as well as corporations
around the world.
     For more information, contact Bill Jones of AT&T Secure Com-
munications Systems, 919 279-6511.
                            #   #   #