
    =============================================
    RAZOR 1911: The History (1985-1998)
    Written by Founding Member Sector 9
    Moved to ASCII by Jason Scott, TEXTFILES.COM
    =============================================

    This page tells briefly about our career through the years 1985 to 1996
    on Commodore 64, Amiga and PC. I tried my best to remember all details but
    of course I've missed some things and I ask whoever it may concern to be 
    indulgent with me and notify me instead of being disappointed or angry. 

    I'd especially like to dedicate this page to ex-Razor member Bug, who is 
    no longer among us.

    $ector 9 - founder member   
    Norway June 9th 1998,

    -------------------
    In the beginning...
    -------------------

    On a rainy evening back in October 1985 three young Norwegian guys decided
    to form a computer group. We were not exactly sure about what we needed 
    the group for but we were really inspired by other big groups at the time,
    such as Flash Cracking Group 1941, Section 8, Electronic Cracking 
    Association 1998, ABC 1999, Jedi 2001, 1103, Djenghis Khan, Hellmates, 
    SCC, Dynamic Duo etc. 

    These three founder members are today known as Doctor No, Insane TTM and
    Sector9. 

    ------------------------------
    Playing with the Commodore C64
    ------------------------------

    A good group does of course deserve a good name, and thanks to Hellmates
    we decided to call ourselves RAZOR 2992. (No, that's not a typo). The 
    number was put there to separate us from eventual future jerks who 
    would come and steal the "Razor"-label. Besides, most of the other 
    groups used a number too - so why shouldn't we? (We actually had a group
    of nitwits on Commodore C64 who stole our name for a while and added 
    "Express" behind it - ie "Razor Express". Not many remembers them today
    though). 

    It didn't take us long to realize that 2992 was a dull number. So we came
    up with 1911 instead. We all agreed on that it sounded much better. Many
    people has asked us through the years why we chose exactly 1911. The
    reason is that the scene on Commodore C64 was full of brainless kids who,
    for some odd reason, enjoyed using 666 (the number of the beast - from
    the Revelation) on their demos, letters, diskbags and God knows what else.
    We thought this was rather childish, after all what has occultism got to 
    do in the scene anyway? So we chose 1911 because it translates to $777 
    (in the hexadecimal numbersystem). 777 happens to be the opposite of 666
    and so it was our small "grow-up-and-get-a-clue"-message to the immature
    kids in the scene. It may also be mentioned that we seem to be immortal
    and thus GOD-like (777). Later on we used the name "Project $777" in a
    demo on Amiga to slag off everyone's that we just didn't like in the
    scene but couldn't find a good excuse to yell at under the Razor-name.
    This time more people realized what was going on, but most of them
    thought it was quite funny so we got away with it (we always seem to). 

    The 64-period was rather short. We made a lot of demos and a few cracks
    and became one of the better groups here in Norway. However - we didn't
    come up with too many outstanding productions. A few of them are still
    in circulation today on those CD-Rom compilations of Commodore 64 demos.
    Some of them are worth taking a look at, at least as a curiosity. So 
    after a year the group broke up for a while. One half went to TCC while
    the other half (Sector9 and Doctor No) went to Megaforce (later known
    on Amiga as Scoopex).  This only lasted for about a month - we decided
    to join Active Cracking Crew. This is where we got in touch with the 
    WORLD for the first time. Through ACC we got to learn how the big
    crackers of C64 worked, we entered telephoneconferences and talked to
    everyone in the scene that was worth mentioning. About 6 months later
    we went to one of the big parties at the time. Back then parties were 
    only for the "top elite" people. If you didn't have an invitation and
    couldn't legitimate yourself you could forget about even entering the
    place. They were actually even called "COPY-parties", and instead of
    boring democompetions we voted for the best cracker of the year (I 
    remember that this year, 1987, it was Mr.Z from Triad, a few votes 
    ahead of Laffen from Raw Deal) and the competition was when Danish 
    Gold (the organizers) came up with a brand new original and every group
    could have a go simultaneously (If I'm not mistaken FairLight did some
    cooperation-crack together with ACC on a James Bond game there). Sorry
    about the digression folks, I just get really nostalgic from time to 
    time. Anyway, on the plane from Denmark back to Norway we decided to 
    give rebirth to Razor on the Amiga together with two members (Lord S
    and Hypocrite) from the highly successful crackingroup Raw Deal. 

    Other important people from the c64-period are Mr.W and Tilt. 

    ------------------------------
    The Amiga - demos are forever!
    ------------------------------

    The Amiga was really slow in the beginning - nothing happened. No games,
    no demos, no people, no nothing. But after a year with just sporadic
    productions from Razor we started putting out demos on a more regular
    basis (1988). Soon we were among the better demogroups around, and got
    many members from all over the world. Our demos were usually quite
    original - new ideas, nice graphics and really catchy music. But still
    something was missing. The senior members were all aware of the fact
    that our wish was to become a major cracking group as well as a good
    demogroup, unlike many of the new members. As we were one of the bigger
    demogroups we occasionally entered phoneconferences with the major 
    cracking groups (such as Paranoimia, Accumulators, Eclipse (No, not the
    new PC-crew), Quartex etc). We became quite good friends with Zodact
    and Onyx from Accumulators and when they broke up in late 1989 we made
    them join us. Zodact was the main American supplier (and sysop of a 
    major bbs: The Castle) and Onyx was their main European cracker. All of
    a sudden we had solved our main problem: ORIGINALS! Besides we had 
    access to two good crackers - Lord S and Onyx. 

    We also got heavily into the art of phreaking, so we had plenty of 
    ways of reaching all our contacts around the world. This was way before
    the masses of lamers got any idea of what was going on, so everything
    was fairly safe too. During the last two weeks of 1989 we had our two
    first world-first releases on Amiga - Pocket Rockets and Strip Poker
    II. (I know they were rather cheesy, but who cares today?) Now we 
    released games on a regular basis for a few months, until we joined
    a cooperation with Classic on Amiga during spring 1990. This didn't
    last long when we found out that some of their members tried to stab
    us in the back (you learn from every mistake you do!). After the
    break with Classic we continued putting out games until April 1991 
    (I think it was about 50 games altogether). By the time Amiga started
    becoming a dull computer to crack on. You had to work like crazy to 
    warp up disks because they all had track-protection, and you had to
    put out fix after fix after fix for different problems.

    Among these problems was the NTSC/PAL difference which made it 
    impossible for Americans to play European games without patches 
    and vica versa. Besides there were tons of groups competing on the 
    same games, and usually if you released something you would be 
    double, triple or even quadra(?)-released by other groups because 
    noone could afford to lose on a release. The general economy was also
    weak, there wasn't enough people with money to keep the group running.

    Other people from the Amiga period that deserves to be mentioned are: 
    Ziphoid, Sir.Henry, Rex, Jawbreaker, Sim, Drake, Murdock, Angel of 
    Death, Analog Kid, DiMarz, Uncle Tom, Codex, Bug, Nosferatu, Darksilver,
    Atomic (SOS/Abrasax), Jogeir (Maniac), Mantronix, SOS, Mr.T, The Cat, 
    Dave and lots of others.

    ---------------------------------
    PC - the building of a dynasty...
    ---------------------------------

    The solution came to us without us really realizing what was going on.
    A brilliant PC-cracker (Darwin) just happened to live in our 
    neighborhood. What could be more perfect? It made us able to do 
    everything ourselves, without having to rely on a cracker in another 
    part of the world as we were used to. We closed down the Amigadivison
    (with exeption of Sim, Drake, Murdock and Codex who later made the 
    best and most famous demo ever, VOYAGE). 

    We restructured the group totally - the group consisted of a more or
    less anonymous investor, Darwin, Doctor No, Onyx, Zodact, myself,
    Black Spyrit (SysOp) Red Baron (Sysop EuroHQ) and Langoliar (SysOp
    WHQ). Together we managed to put out dozens of games on the PC (a few
    of the first ones was released in cooperation with Skillion(!)) and the
    response from the PC-scene was immense. Our little tight group quickly
    grew from a small, compact and efficient one to a MASSIVE release
    machine. We had no idea things were gonna go so fast. With the exception
    of a month in late 1991 where Razor was dissolved and became a part of
    INC we've continuously released games, trainers, docs, intros etc.
    ever since (There has been over 600 games and countless other
    productions from us since then). The rest is, as you all know by 
    now, history! 

    The most recent thing that needs to be mentioned is our entrance into 
    the world of Internet. With this www-page and a very efficient 
    distribution of releases we are able to reach more people faster than
    ever before. All skillfully controlled by our highly competent 
    internet staff.

    The other thing worth mentioning is our introduction into the CD-Rom
    scene. We sporadically released CD-Rom games under the ROM 1911 label,
    but didn't pay too much attention to this part of the scene until the
    lack of floppy games forced us to. So in October 1995 we decided to 
    enter the CD-Rom scene and to we overtook the leading place here too
    despite many people claiming that we wouldn't be able to convert such
    a big group.
    
    This just proves that regardless of what we focus our concentration 
    on, we still manage to become among the very best within our genre.

    -----------------------
    The legend continues...
    -----------------------

    Of course we've had our problems in the group, this will always happen
    when sooner or later when a group becomes as big as ours. Twice the 
    group has been split into two (The first time was 1994 when Legend
    was born and the second time in 1995 when Eclipse appeared), and both
    times we've managed to recover thanks to devoted and talented people
    ready to do a great job for Razor 1911. 

    We have had hundreds of dedicated persons doing their best to keep
    the group on top at any time. They all deserve a great salute! 
    Especially I'd like to mention those who got busted by the police 
    through the years, among those are Baal, Insane TTM, Gene, Devil, 
    Butcher, Red Wizard, Ginnie, Laric and last but not least the other
    sysops and couriers who got into the clammy hands of the cops 
    (among these - Assassins Guild and Pharaohs' Akira). We feel with you! 

    Some of the more distinctive characters during the IBM-period 
    especially needs to be mentioned: 

      Zodact was our first really fast and serious supplier and
      US-organizer. He wanted to take Razor to the top and when he
      finally managed he quit the scene to everyones' surprise. He's
      been missed ever since by everyone that learnt to know him. 

      Black Spyrit was one of the best ANSI and VGA artists around
      in addition to his brilliant work for Razor (and ACiD). We 
      won't forget you Chris. 

      The Renegade Chemist is one of the big personalities in the 
      scene, so I don't really think I need to say more. We are all
      grateful for all the effort he put into the group. Shame about
      the Eclipse-split, but nothing can last forever I suppose. 

      Butcher should be well-known for most people for his long career
      in the scene. From his time in NEI on C64 until he left Razor 
      after the Legend-split in 1994 he was beloved by almost 
      everyone that had the pleasure of knowing him. After the split
      he unfortunately disappeared from the scene when the police 
      busted him. 

      Marauder handled supplies, organizing and group-politics from
      1993 to early 1995 when he decided to join Eclipse. Shame about
      the split, but he did a great job while it lasted. 

      Randall Flagg was our main cracker from 1992 to the Eclipse-split
      in 1995. We all appreciate this Italian geek and all his 
      brilliant cracks all his funny expressions. 

      RazorBlade took care of our UK business from 1992 to 1994 when
      personal reasons made him withdraw from the scene. He was known
      as a sarcastic bastard, trustworthy friend, great supplier and
      last but not least as one of the leaders of the world's best
      couriersquad ever (We're talking about the 1993 edition of 
      Razor's European courierteam consisting of him, Devil, Hoppermania,
      GrimLock, Insane TTM, Slain and Digital Justice which made every
      other courierteam in the world look like plain amateurs). 

      Hoppermania, GrimLock, Janno, Dune, Timelord, Nailz, Rage and 
      The Brain have been (and partly still are) our representatives
      in Be-Ne-Lux. They all did a great job couriering, supplying
      and organizing. 

      We've had a number of good crackers working for us through the
      years and except for those I've already mentioned these guys
      deserve a pat on the back: Excessive Knight, Snacky, Wolverine,
      Intrepid, HAL9000, White Cracker, Marco Ramius and several
      others I can't remember from the top of my mind. 

      Our members in Australia and New Zealand during the years have
      done a lot of good work for us. Thanks alot to Grim, Prime Evil,
      Poise, Lithium, Ginnie and Red Wizard. 

      Speed Racer, EOS, The Geck, Beowulf, Lord Thinker - the guys who
      took over when the group split up in early 95. They did a great
      job putting the group back together again. They were also in 
      charge of migrating the group into the CD-ripping scene. 

      Driudkin, Hula, Third Son, Pitbull, Sir Alf, Toast and all the
      other guys who participated in the building of Razor's very 
      powerful internet division. 

      I'd also like to thank some of the other guys who are running
      the show today - The Punisher, Manhunter, Bunter, Vitas, Hetero,
      Ice, Sundancer, Cypher, Da Jackal and all the others. We all
      depend on them to carry on with this group that so many have
      sacrificed so much for. I still feel that the crew responsible
      today have managed to continue running Razor the way the scene 
      has always learnt to love and hate us by. 

      Other people who deserves to be mentioned are: Chairman 
      (Suburbia sysop), TFM, The Unknown, SomeOne, The Ghost Wind, 
      The Witch King, Hoson, Grim, Fallen Angel, Zebig, Performer, 
      Serpico, Chessking, Westbam, M:Et, Laric, Avalon, Mindbender, 
      Mephistar, Faldo, Big Boss, Hot Tuna, Zeus, Maverick, Piston and
      everyone else that my mind can't think of at this very moment. 

    I think it's in its place to send a greeting to our worthy competition
    and companions up through the years: The Humble Guys, INC, Dream Team,
    Tristar & Red Sector, Public Enemy, Quartex, Hybrid and all the others. 

    For further details about what has happened to Razor during the years
    I refer to the .nfo-files that are included in every PC-release that 
    we have done through the years. You will also find material about 
    Razor on Internet and in dozens of diskmags, computermags and
    newspapers all over the world. 

    Contact us if you feel like telling us something we might wanna know. 

    Thank you for your time - it's been a slice.... 

    -$ector9-
