
	Elvira II : The Jaws of Cerberus

	Important Note

	This game will not give any warning when you did something wrong
	and this could easily make it necessary for you to restore from
	some earlier saved games. So, keep many copies of your saved game
	and don't lose the following items:

	silver crucifix - needed to keep the vampire away
	10 black candles - needed to place in pentagram at endgame
	box of matches - needed to light the candles
	wirecutters - needed to cut the wires of frankenstein
	bible addressed to the priest - needed to mix the resurrect spell
	chalice in altar room - it contained human blood.

	Mixing of Spells

	The manual did not give full detail as to what ingredient you
	need to use to mix spell, so you might just lose some crucial
	items this way. However some ingredients can be used in various
	spell, so you still need to make some decision. As a word of
	advice, try to mix spell when you are at higher level or under
	influence of the brain boost spell, this way you'll get more
	spells per mixing.

	The following ingredients are safe:

	Level 1
	bless - holy water, crucifix(it is needed but you can still get 
	        it back)
	healing hand - no ingredients.
	ice dart - no ingredients.
	unseen shield - no ingredients.

	Level 2
	breath underwater - mushroom, bread, food
	glue - glue
	luck - horse shoe, porcelain lucky cat.
	protection - metal headbend

	Level 3
	antidote - yellow flask, red mushroom (inocybe asterosn)
	brainboost - computer diskettes
	courage - wine, gin
	detect trap - glass vase, glass pitcher, wine glasses
	turn undead - a brain
	unholy barrier - book of prayer

	Level 4
	buoyancy - fish bones
	fireball - papers, memo, calendar, newspaper, etc.
	telekinesis - radio
	revive - cheese

	Level 5
	herbal healing - mushroom (lepiota leucothites) 
	holy blast - holy water, golden cross, silk from church, prayer
		     book, candlestick.
	resist fire - fire extinguisher
	magic muscles - silver candlestick, plate setting, pen, knife, 
			wrench.

	Level 6
	detect magic - yellow crystal, quartz
	fear - eye from a witch
	mindlock - padlock, book 

	Level 7
	lightning bolt - blue gem, wrench, candelabrum, plate setting.
	summon storm - barometer

	Level 8
	absorb magick - sponge, red crystal, towel
	illusion - mirror

	Level 9
	bind demon - scroll of binding, coil of rope
	nova - gin, bourlon
	cure wounds - holy water

	Level 10
	resurrect - basket of eggs, bible addressed to the priest, heart,
		    brain

	Walk through

	Your initial mission was to rescue Elvira from the 3 studio. Each
	studio will have a Elvira hidden somewhere. The first two Elvira
	you find will always attack you. The real one will follow you.
	After finding each Elvira, you will get a certain item which is
	crucial at the end game. After that, you'll need to get the 3
	items enchanted by the Indian janitor at the basement. But first
	you need to get his pipe first. Next, you need to find a holy man
	to draw a pentagram. Then you'll need to summon the Cerberus and
	use the sacred items to destroy it.

	Outside Studio

	Pick up the rock by the road side. Throw it at the door to break
	the window. Enter the guard room. Open the closet and get the
	security key from the dead body. Click on the keyboard, drag the 
	security key to the key hole. Enter security code to open the main 
	gate.

	Car Park

	Open the back of Elvira's car. Open the tool box and get the
	tools. The wirecutter is inside.

	Level 1

	There is a lift here where you can access the basement and
	level 2. The 3 studio can be access from this level.

	Basement

	There is an Indian janitor here. Talk to him for some information.
	Don't mention the fire water until later on. The room behind him is 
	cold, and there is a spirit guarding the copper rod. Cast a fireball 
	to warm up the room before attempting to take the copper rod. 

	Level 2

	There are many rooms here. Explore the place and try to find the 
	radio and the diskette. 
	
	There is a witch inside the custom room, kill it to get its eye. 
	Wear Sir Raleigh's costume.  This will give you a rapier, the best 
	weapon you can get until you find the sword in the catacombs.

	Get the 2 bottles of wine in the director's room. Save them for the 
	courage spell.

	Studio 1

	There a 4 level in the catacombs interconnected by passages
	going up and down. The lift cannot be accessed until you
	have reach level 4. Turn on the lift when you are at level 1,
	otherwise you won't be able to use the lift later on.

	A scorpion is guarding the scroll of binding inside a cave.

	There is a pool in a certain cave. Cast breath underwater to go 
	down. Drop everything before you go down the water.  Kill the 
	creature in the water and get the coil of rope at the bottom. It's 
	weight will not allow you to surface if you carry too much items 
	with you. Alternatively, you can cast buoyancy if you have found 
	the fish bones in Studio 3.

	Somewhere in level 3 you will find a dead end with 2 vines which 
	you can cut. Cut the longer vine to swing across the gap. You will 
	not be able to swing back from there onwards. So, check your 
	inventory before you attempt this, if you don't have the radio or 
	telekinesis spell with you. Go back to the building and get it first.

	Swing across and explore the place until you find the dead body. 
	Cast telekinesis to get the wallet from the web. Open the wallet 
	to get the lift key. You can see a large spider across the gap. 
	Walk to the rim and cast an ice dart at it, this will make it cross 
	over to this side. When it appears. move back all the way and get 
	out of this place. 
	
	Find the lift on this level. Open it and go to the other side. 
	Close the lift door otherwise you can't use the lift later on. If 
	you did not lure the spider across the gap, it will appear here and 
	attack you. And you will probably get killed in the process. Follow 
	the passage and descend the web. There is an Elvira here. Get the 
	tomahawk. Go down and take the lift to level 1. If you did not 
	close the door, you must walk all the way out.

	Studio 2

	There are many rooms in the haunted house. Get the barometer
	in the living room, but don't enter the passage where you
	see a lady figure. You need the turn undead to kill the
	undead that is inside. 
	
	Enter the dinning room. Check to make sure you have at least one 
	fireball spell with you before you open the cupboard on the wall. 
	You will faint and get carried to a room full of dead bodies. Get 
	the boot and wear it. There are some wine and food here. Cast a 
	fireball to sound the alarm, a guy will appear and attack you. Kill
	him and open the door. 
	
	The kitchen is infront and have many items which you can use. The 
	stairs lead down to the labs. Don't talk to the scientist unless 
	you have disguise yourself. 
	
	Go to the other lab. There is a frankenstein here, don't click 
	on it. If you have cut the wires from his head, you will need to 
	restore a saved game or the game cannot be completed. Get the 
	brain on the shelf and the test tubes. Use the brain to mix a 
	turn undead spell. 
	
	Go back to the kitchen, take the passage out. Cast the turn 
	undead spell on the undead that appears. Cast courage if you 
	always faint at the sight of it but remember that quite a 
	number of courage spells is needed through out the game. 

	Go upstair. There is a room fill with fire. If you enter without 
	the resist fire spell, you'll be killed. There is nothing in the
	room though.
	
	In a bed room, you'll fall asleep and a succubi will kill you. 
	Cast courage before entering. Get the tunning fork on the bed.

	In the kid's room, get the toy cubes.

	In the room with a dead body on the bed. Pull the bedsheet
	aside, get the wallet and then kill the ghost that appears.
	Get the wallet and take a look at the script. A set of 
	photographs will fall out which you can use to disguise
	yourself. Shift the bedsheet to reveal a hidden button under
	the bed. Press it to access the secret passage. There you
	can get the 10 black candles and chalice with human blood. If 
	you don't have the silver crucifix, the vampires will kill you 
	when you take the candles.

	In the room with 2 wooden boxes. Look inside them to get the
	box of matches. Get the ladder.

	Go upstair. A vampire will run towards you. Use the tunning
	fork to kill it. Use the ladder to go up the roof. Place the
	copper rod at the roof. When you have reach high enough level,
	cast summon storm here to animate frankenstein.

	Go to lab, set right switch to maximum and then pull the left
	switch. The monster will walk towards you. You'll need to
	click its head to cut the wires. There is a door behind it,
	so you need to kill it when it have move enough distance from
	the door. Click on the door to open it, if you can't restore
	and try again. Behind the door is Elvira. The magic bag is
	also here.

	In the room where you find a ghost guarding the door. Stand
	one square infront of it and drop a toy cube. The ghost will
	move forward. Move forward, open the door and enter the
	library. You might want to keep a saved game here so as to
	read the books when you need them. There is a paper containing
	the way to mix a strong poison in the book.

	In the room with the fish tank. There are two ways to get the
	key inside the fish tank.
	
	1. Cast telekinesis to get the key inside. 

	2. Another more interesting way to get the key is to disguise
	yourself as the lab assistant and talking to the scientist.
	To dress up as the lab assistant you need the lab coat and the 
	fuzzy wig and the makeup box which you can find in Level 2. Look
	for the scientist inside the room oppposite the frankenstein
	room and ask him to mix a strong poison. Then use the poison in 
	the meat in the kitchen and throw the meat into the fish tank and 
	get the key. 

	After getting the key. Turn and face the picture of the duck. Drag 
	it to your inventory. Click on the wall behind the picture to reveal 
	a wall safe. Use the key from the fish tank to open it. Get the 
	peace pipe.

	Studio 3

	Somebody encounter a vampire here, but i didn't. Maybe I am
	carrying the crucifix or I am lucky?

	Go to level 2 and dress up like a wizard. You need the wizard's cap 
	and gown. This allows you to deal with the wizard at the bottom of
	the catacombs.

	There is a dead priest here. Cast the resurrect spell to 
	resurrect him. Get the holy water from the basin. 

	Move the cupboard to reveal a trap door. The graveyards have
	6 levels. There are many traps along the way. You can avoid
	spike pit trap by clicking on the button and avoid it. Cut
	wire before crossing. Most of the chest you find here are
	trapped, cast detect trap to determine the type of trap 
	present. 

	Carry enough ingredient to mix at least 6 holy blast spells
	before attempting to rescue Elvira. You might need to cast
	brain boost to increase the number of spells you can mixed.
	Prepare a fair amount of courage spells. There are 2 levels
	where you need to explore under the protection of the spell.

	The bright red potion will increase your spell point.
	I have not figure out the use for the rest of the potions.

	Lets call the surface level 0. So you need to go to level -6
	to find Elvira. At level -4 and -5, there is a ghost that is
	flying around. You can't really kill it, but it can't do
	any harm to you if courage spell is active. 

	At level -6. there is magician that will attack you if you
	are not dress up like a wizard. You can pysche out the wizard if
	you disguise yourself as a wizard. Otherwise, cast fireball or 
	nova to kill him. Elvira can be found here together with the war 
	lance.

	An angle of death might appears after you reached the surface.
	Cast 5-6 holy blast to kill it. A blow from it is sufficient to
	kill you so save before you go up to the church.

	Basement

	Talk to the janitor. Mention fire water. Give him the peace
	pipe, war lance, magic bag and the tomahawk. Talk to him
	and he'll make the 3 items sacred.

	Studio 3 - Church

	Resurrect the priest if you have not done so. Talk to him and
	ask him to draw a perfect pentagram from human blood. Give
	him the blood from the chalice you found in the altar room. He 
	will agree and draw the pentagram at the car park.

	Car Park

	Walk to the pentagram, but not into it. Place the 10 black
	candles on the pentagram. Light the candles with the box
	of matches. Use the magic bag. Wait for Cerberus to appear.
	Cast bind demon to hold it. Throw war lance at it. Hack out
	the heart with the tomahack.

	Done! The game is completed.

