
The Fourth Dimension
Unedited 7th Grade Version

   The fourth dimension is a undefined area in which objects must be located
by four coordinates:  north/south, east/west, up/down and ana/kata.  In this
report I attempt to give a brief summary of the fourth dimension by using
various analogies between the second and third dimensions.
   There are many different views of the fourth dimension.  One of them is
that the fourth coordinate (ana/kata) is whatever it needs to be to solve
whatever needs solving (i.e. time, etc.).  Another one is that the fourth
dimension is time/space in the sense that it controls them (space being
abstract).  A final one is that the fourth dimension is a combination of the
above and more.  What is explained here is the basic theorem of the fourth
dimension using simple analogies.
   In Lineland - a mythical one dimensional world - all that a person would
be able to see would be a point, because everything is just a line.  In
fact, some people would say that you couldn't even see that - because
nothing has height or width.  Whereas in Flatland - a mythical two
dimensional world - all that one could see would be a line, or again, since
nothing has height, nothing.  (See figure 1 for Lineland and figure 2 for
Flatland.)
   If a cube would put one of its faces against a second dimensional plane
where a square were living all the square could see was part of another
square because the square cannot look up or down.  Therefore, if a sphere
were passing throught flatland and our square was witnessing the event then
the square would see a side of a circle getting larger and then shrinking
(fig. 3).  Likewise, if a hypersphere were to pass through the third
dimension, you would see a sphere getting larger and then shrinking.
Another aspect of dimensional interaction is reversal.  Imagine that you
were suddenly transformed into your mirror image by a fourth dimensional
being.  The being would only have to rotate you ana or kata and you would be
reversed (fig. 4).  It would be easier to imagine a three dimensional being
rotating a two dimensional being into its mirror image (fig. 5).
   Using the directions ana and kata a fourth dimensional being could see
the inside of things that we consider enclosed (i.e. the human body) and
take those things without first opening the object (i.e. drinking wine out
of a bottle without opening it.) (fig. 6).  One could commit a "perfect
crime" in the three dimensional world by using ana and kata to avoid
boundaries and take an object - without even opening a safe (fig.7).
   Some believe that the fourth dimension is made up of planes.  A plane is
a level of life - for example, Christianity supports three seperate planes:
Heaven, Earth, and Hell.  Some religions state that there are seven planes,
6 astral and 1 earthly.  Other people think that there is an infinite number
of planes and still others think that there are no planes whatsoever(fig.
8).  So how do planes tie in with the fourth dimension?  Well, in example,
if the planes of the fourth dimension were leveled off as colors, a creature
from one plane could see his own color but would not notice another colored
creature, in fact he wouldn't even feel that other creature.  Confusing,
isn't it?
   In conclusion, the fourth dimension is an interesting , fascinating,
confusing world.  Don't you agree?

