

                                  Star Wars

                            The Failure of Balanus

                                by Bill Menees

                 Nincohn was long forgotten.  A remote planet on the
         farthest regions of the Outer Rim, it had been explored by
         the Republic at the height of their expansion.  Now, as
         their influence in the galaxy dwindled, so did their memory
         of the small, unresourceful planet.
                 Only one Republic expedition ever contacted Nincohn.
         It carried a single Jedi and four crewmen.  The group's only
         report back to the Republic's Exploration division discussed
         the relative lack of life and resources on the planet.
         After this the ship was to leave for another system.
                 But the ship failed to report in again, and after
         several weeks the Republic planned a search for the missing
         ship.  However, before the mission could commence, the first
         stirrings of the Clone Wars began, and the Republic's
         attention quickly shifted from a few lost men to protecting
         themselves.  In the process, Nincohn and it's only link to
         the Republic were forgotten as well.

         ------------------------------------------------------------

                 "Well, sir, I've sent our findings to Exploration about
         the lovely planet we've found here.  They've given us orders
         to proceed to a new system about three weeks away.  Shall we
         get going?"
                 The Jedi Balanus opened his eyes slowly as if awakening
         from a trance and responded, "No.  I have found someone that
         I must contact before we leave."
                 "But how, sir?  We haven't seen a soul since we got
         here," said the crewman.
                 "I have just seen a soul, son.  One that is strong with
         the Force and in desperate need of help.  He is being drawn
         closer to the Dark Side even as we speak."   Balanus paused
         momentarily as if shaken and continued, "Wait here until I
         return.  I must seek him out before it is too late."
                 "Yes, sir,"  the crewman half-heartedly called out as
         he watched the Jedi leave.

                 Balanus hurried to the nearby village where he knew he
         would find the soul he was seeking. Or rather the soul that
         was seeking him.  As he approached the village he could hear
         shouts and the cry of an angry mob of people.  When he
         entered he saw not only the mob but that they were
         surrounding the man he was looking for.  The people were
         shouting and circling tighter and tighter around the man.
                 "Kill the Wizard!"
                 "The Demon must die," the crowd began to scream.  "Get
         him!"
                 And as the crowd rushed, the man in the middle went
         into action.  Huge arcs of electricity erupted from all
         around his body like an exploding sphere.  Those closest to
         him died instantly, and those further back suffered only a
         few seconds longer.  But like an explosion, the blast only
         lasted a few seconds.  The man knew danger still existed,
         and he mentally screamed for Balanus to help him.
         He knew, and Balanus knew, that he couldn't protect himself
         for long.
                 The remaining crowd hesitated a moment but then began
         to rush the man again.  But before they could reach him,
         Balanus drew his lightsaber and cut the supports out from
         under the hut nearest him.  The resulting crash stopped
         everyone in their tracks, including the man in the middle.
                 Balanus spoke to the angry crowd and used all his Jedi
         skills to calm them.  "Good people!  Please do not destroy
         this man!  I have seen his soul and..."
                 But before he could finish someone in the crowd cried,
         "Then you must be evil as well!"
                 "No!  I seek only to help you," Balanus said.
                 But the mob was not convinced and more people turned on
         Balanus.  As he looked into their minds he knew that they
         had only hatred and fear for him.  As quickly as the attack
         on the other man had begun, so did the attack on Balanus.
                 At first, he tried only to escape, but when it became
         clear that he was surrounded and faced certain death, his
         composure begin to fail and his Jedi training began to be
         forgotten.  With each slice of his lightsaber, Balanus'
         anger increased, and he journeyed one step closer to the
         Dark Side.  Balanus eventually managed to cut a hole through
         the crowd and run off in a maddened rage towards his ship.
         As he ran he could feel that the other man had also escaped
         the wrath of the crowd but that he too had killed many of
         them to do it.
                 When Balanus arrived at the ship, he saw that the
         townspeople had beaten him there and had already killed its
         crew.  This was the last mistake they ever made.  His rage
         now at its limits and all Jedi values abandoned, Balanus
         disposed of his attackers in the swift, elegant, and lethal
         way that only a Jedi could.  Or rather, the way that only a
         Dark Jedi could.
                 When the fight was over and all the townspeople were
         destroyed, Balanus fell to his knees and cursed all that he
         knew for bringing him to this destiny.  And just before he
         collapsed from exhaustion, Balanus became aware that the man
         who had gotten him into this in the first place was watching
         him from a distance.  And Balanus cursed him as well.

         ------------------------------------------------------------

                 When he awoke, Balanus was inside his ship.  And so was
         the other man.
                 "My name is Palpatine," the other man began.  "Welcome
         to the 'former' village of Nincohn-Agosha."
                 "I am the Jedi Balanus.  As I slept I saw many things,
         many possible futures.  I saw that our destinies are
         intertwined.  You are strong in the Force, and I will train
         you to use your power.  In time we will achieve the greatest
         of power."
                 Palpatine thought for a moment and spoke, "So it is the
         Force that I control, is it?  I have heard of this Force
         from others, and I suspected that it might be the source of
         my unusual powers."
                 "You are referring to your ability to create electric
         fields.  That is only one power that a Jedi has."
                 "I am referring to many other abilities I have besides
         that," Palpatine said.  "At times, I can move objects with a
         thought, read other people's minds, or even go for months
         without eating or drinking.  I am by no means an ordinary
         man," he said with a grin.
                 "You said 'at times'.  I will teach you the ways of the
         Force, and through discipline and training, you will in time
         master those abilities and gain many others.  From this time
         forth, Palpatine, you will call me Master Balanus."
                 "And if I choose not to follow you," Palpatine asked,
         "What then?"
                 "Then I will destroy you and fulfill my destiny alone,"
         Balanus said.
                 "So be it, Master Balanus.  Let us begin."

                 As the months passed, Palpatine grew stronger and
         stronger with the Dark Side of the Force.  He quickly
         mastered the skills he had previously been able to use only
         momentarily, and he learned others with equal speed and
         ability.  It soon became apparent to both men that the
         student would eventually outgrow the master.
                 "Your training is almost complete, Palpatine," began
         Balanus.  "You have only one skill left to master."
                 "And what skill is that, Master Balanus?"
                 "The lightsaber.  I have spent the last few months
         constructing you one, and we shall begin your training now."
                 "Master, I do not wish to use such a clumsy and
         inelegant weapon as your lightsaber.  It's power is
         insignificant to my abilities, and I will not be burdened or
         weakened by depending on technology to fight my battles."
                 "An arrogant opinion, as always, Palpatine.  When your
         training is complete, you may decide which skills you wish
         to use.  For now, I will be the judge of what you learn or
         do not learn.  If we are to be successful in my plans, we
         will both need to master all the skills of the Jedi."
                 "For now then, Master Balanus.  But for now only."

                 One month later, Palpatine's training was complete, and
         the two men were ready to leave Nincohn.  On the night of
         their departure, Balanus finally explained his plans to
         Palpatine.
                 "I was a well known Jedi in the Republic.  I had many
         friends in high-level positions, and more importantly, I
         kept many secrets.  At one time, I was the personal guardian
         to the First Speaker of the Senate, and in that post I saw
         much deceit and betrayal.  He was a corrupt man, and I
         collected the evidence to expose him.  Unfortunately, he
         found out what I was doing.
                 "Since I was a Jedi Knight, he couldn't just have me
         quietly killed off, so he did the next best thing.  He
         transferred me to the Exploration division and sent me as
         far away from him and the Republic as possible.  I have
         little doubt that he's the reason no search party was ever
         sent to look for our vessel.
                 "The first thing we'll do when we return is get control
         of him.  I still have the evidence, and we'll use it to put
         him in our pocket.  He will help us get you a place in the
         Senate.  From there you and I will be able to control more
         Senators in time.  Many are corrupt, but few would suspect
         that one of their own ranks would betray them.  But you will
         betray them.  In a short time, I will control the Senate and
         you will be placed as its leader under my supervision.
                 "Are you prepared to leave, Palpatine?"
                 "Yes, Balanus.  Under one condition."
                 "And that is?"
                 "I will follow you, but I will no longer call you
         Master.  We have both foreseen that I can destroy you, but I
         do not wish to at this time.  As such, I feel it is
         inappropriate to call you Master any longer."
                 "As you wish, Palpatine.  But remember, that is only
         one possible future.  I have seen others where I destroy you
         and still others where we are both destroyed.  What is
         important is that we fulfill our destiny and succeed in
         overthrowing the Republic."
                 "So be it, Balanus."

         ------------------------------------------------------------

                 The voyage back to the Imperial Senate in the heart of
         the Republic took almost a month from the remote planet
         Nincohn.  This time was used to educate Palpatine on some of
         the finer points of Imperial Senate politics.  Also during
         the voyage, the two Dark Jedi perfected mental fronts that
         would conceal their true purposes from any Jedi Knights they
         might encounter when they reached their destination.  But
         these fronts also served the dual purpose of allowing them
         to keep their thoughts from each other.  Thus the two Dark
         Jedi were reduced to verbal communication.
                 One night, after several days without either one saying
         a word to the other, they began to discuss some of the
         things that had happened to them on Nincohn.  Eventually
         Palpatine began to retell what had been happening to him
         when Balanus had discovered him in the village.
                 "It was the time for choosing a new leader for the
         village.  Although I had never been much a part of the
         village, I always knew that I would rule someday.  So I went
         to the festival where the new leader would be chosen.
                 "When I arrived I told them why I was there, and the
         crowd mocked me.  They called me 'outcast', 'crazy', all
         sorts of things.  This, of course, angered me, so I
         challenged their newly selected leader to a dual for the
         title.  He agreed and instantly charged at me.  When he hit
         me it felt like I exploded, and when I looked at him I
         realized that in a way I had.
                 "I had been so startled that I had instinctively
         electrocuted him.  For several minutes no one said anything.
         In that time I reached out with my feelings for someone to
         help me, and I found you.  Shortly after, the crowd's anger
         began to swell, you arrived, and the rest is history.
                 "But now I see that I was correct in my knowledge that
         I would rule someday.  With my seat in the Senate, I will
         rule far more than I had ever dreamed of back on Nincohn.
         For that chance I am grateful."
                 Balanus corrected him, "'We will rule far more than
         you had ever dreamed of' is what I'm sure you meant to say.
         And that much is true.  Your gratitude, however, is
         unnecessary.  I need your loyalty only, just as you need
         mine."
                 'But I only need you for a time,' thought Palpatine.
         'For a short time.'
                 After that the two talked even less.

                 When they arrived at their destination they were
         shocked to learn that the Clone Wars were already ravaging
         the Republic.  They were welcomed home by only a small
         greeting party and were almost immediately forgotten by the
         bureaucracy.  This only made it easier for them to execute
         their plans.  Within days they had used the evidence of the
         First Speaker's corruption to blackmail him, and a few short
         weeks later the First Speaker was able to secure a seat in
         the Senate for Palpatine.  He was at first passed off as a
         'temporary' replacement for the missing Senator from the
         remote and minor planet Epibionta.  When no 'permanent'
         replacement showed up for him, he was allowed to take the
         title himself.
                 By very subtly using his Dark powers, over time
         Palpatine was able to not only secure more and more power
         for himself in the Senate, he was also able to draw more
         attention and control away from the First Speaker.
         Eventually, when the First Speaker was at his weakest,
         Palpatine stole Balanus' evidence against him and used it to
         expose the man and to exalt himself into an even more
         powerful position.  Palpatine was finally ready to show his
         hand and take his place as Master over Balanus.

                 "Palpatine!  I'll have your head!" screamed Balanus as
         he stormed into the Senator's office.  "After all I've done
         for you, you betray me just so you can gain more power for
         yourself in the Senate!  You are a fool!  You could never
         rule this Republic without me!"
                 "My short-sighted old friend,  I do not want to rule
         this Republic," began Palpatine.  "I will build a new empire
         with me as its sole ruler.  I will not answer to governors
         or senators.  I am only a few steps away from my goal as it
         is.  Why do I need you?"
                 "You are not as powerful as you think.  The Clone Wars
         are almost over, and you will not have such an easy time
         securing power once the strong leaders and the Jedi return
         to the Senate.  You will need my influence more than you
         believe.  I have foreseen it!"
                 Palpatine stared at Balanus with cold eyes for a few
         seconds and then responded, "I do need you, but not here.
         Not in my way, where you can mettle in my affairs and make
         pitiful attempts to gain power from me.
                 "You know that you would never have been anything
         without me," Palpatine continued.  "Your destiny is to serve
         me.  As I see it, you owe me your allegiance.  In time you
         will call me Master," he finished with a grin.
                 "Never," said Balanus coldly.  "Your destiny ends here.
         Now."  Then Balanus ignited his lightsaber and stalked
         towards Palpatine.
                 "So be it, my old friend.  You will call me Master,
         but apparently you will do it the hard way."
         In the next moment, Palpatine raised his hands and filled
         the room with a ball of electric fire the likes of which
         Balanus had never seen nor heard of.  For a few seconds,
         Balanus was able to channel the electricity away from him
         through careful oscillation of his light saber.  But when he
         looked into the mind of his former student, he knew that his
         effort was wasted.  Palpatine was only growing stronger, and
         he was only getting weaker.  Finally, he succumbed to the
         inevitable and allowed the electricity to reach him.
                 Palpatine continued his barrage of electric fire until
         Balanus was almost at the point of death.  And then he
         abruptly stopped.  "My old friend, it will take many weeks
         for you to heal.  In that time I will be in your mind day
         and night.  I will extract every bit of your knowledge, your
         hope, and your independence.  When I am finished and I allow
         you to heal, you will call me Master and will single-
         mindedly dedicate your life to serving only me.  You will be
         my Guardian and will live out your life protecting that
         which is important to me.  Do you agree?"
                 Balanus used all his strength to look up at Palpatine.
         In a whisper, he cursed Palpatine and everything that had
         brought him to this destiny.  But as before, his fear of
         death forced him to do anything he could to stay alive.  He
         finally answered, "Yes..."
                 "So be it," Palpatine concluded.

         ------------------------------------------------------------


	-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-

Well, that's the way I think it happened anyway.  Feel free to e-mail
and comment, flame, critique, or better yet praise.  For a few more
weeks I can be reached at menees@utkvx.utk.edu.

Bill Menees
