What is the Nature of Cyberspace?

by Justin McHale
(jmchale@gmuvax.gmu.edu)

The word "cyberspace" is being used a lot lately, mostly in vague reference to 
what goes on in the Internet or on BBSs. But the word has a much wider meaning, 
it derives from the word "cybernetics," which is the science of communication and 
control theory.

Cyberspace: The entire human information space 
considered as a whole.

It is the information space which we all operate in -- radio 
waves are as much a part of the cyberspace matrix as are the 
means by which you are currently reading this article. 
Anything which is a means of communication, or a 
"communication" itself could arguably be considered part of 
cyberspace.

What does a "human information space" really mean? Let's take each of those 
words a step at a time, because each is important:

Information: The building blocks of cyberspace is information which can be 
communicated. It is digital information in computers, radio signals, television 
signals, telephones, i.e. digital recordings of all sorts - video tape, magnetic 
tape, compact discs, etc.



Space: This potential for communication creates a space in two senses: (1) a 
virtual area people may communicate (2) a virtual environment where 
information can be stored.

Human: Cyberspace would not exist without us to "activate" it, otherwise it 
would only exist as communication channels and information stored in 
various locations across the world.


So at its most basic level cyberspace is just the "space" created when information 
is communicated. But it is the speed at which communication takes place in 
cyberspace which makes it what it is.

Identity In Cyberspace



In cyberspace you really have no identity until you create one. For most people on 
the Internet or BBSs, your identity is nothing beyond the textual voice of the 
messages you send, or on-line conversation. The common term for this kind of 
"being" in cyberspace is "telepresence" or just a "presence." 
Being a simple "presence" in cyberspace creates an interesting situation. The 
identity you create in cyberspace does not necessarily have any connection with 
your "real" identity outside of cyberspace. You can take the role of another 
identity, even a completely artificial identity. But even if you don't take on a 
different identity in cyberspace, you will still present a different side of your 
personality, and interact with people differently. This is a natural effect of 
cyberspace environment. Because everything is remotely communicated in 
cyberspace, your "presence" is always a "tele" or a "far off" presence. No matter 
how good the connection is between you and those you are tele-linked with (i.e. 
even real-time video images for example), you are not present in the flesh.

The "World" Of Cyberspace

Cyberspace is a world of hyperreality. Hyperreality is place where "real" objects 
are replaced by representations of objects. Thus in a hyperreal world, the "real" is 
indistinguishable from illusion and simulation. In cyberspace for example, you 
might find an image of a tree instead of a real tree, or perhaps you will simply 
have the description "There is a tall tree here" substituting for a real tree.
Like identities in cyberspace, objects do not necessarily have to relate to anything 
in "real" world at all. Objects or "things" in cyberspace can be as fantastic as can be 
imagined.
Why not try to design the most fantastic cyberspace object your can imagine, and 
contribute it to this magazine? Click here to jump to more information.
 This discussion of the basics of cyberspace will continue in the next issue.

