       шш  шш                                        шшъшш шш  
       шш  шш                                        шш шш шш
шшъъъъ ъъъшъъ шшъъъъш шшъъъъш шшъъъъ шшъъъъъ шшъъъъъ шш шш шш шшъъъъ ъъшшъъ
шшэээ  шшъъшш шшээээш шшээээш шшэээ  шшэээээ шшэээээ шш шш шш шшэээ    шш
шш     шш  шш шш      шш  шш  шш          шш      шш шш шш шш шш       шш
шшээээ шш  шш шш      шш  шшэ шшээээ эээээшш эээээшш шш шшэшш шшээээ   шш

                     Wide-Area Telecommunications
       здбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбдбд©
       цдедедедедедедешшшшшшшедедедедедедедедедедедедедедедедед╢
       цдедедедедедешедешшшшдедедедшшшшедедешшшшшшшшшшшшшшшедед╢
       цдедшшшшшшшшедшшедшшедедедшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшдедед╢
       цдедедшшшшшшшшшшедедедедшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшедедедедед╢
       цдедедешшшшшшшшдедедедедъдшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшшдедедедедед╢
       цдедедедшшшдедъдедедедешшшшшеъшшшшшшшшшшшшшшедшдедедедед╢
       цдедедедедшшшшшдедедедешшшшшшшедшшшшшшшшшшедедедедедедед╢
       цдедедедедешшшшшшдедедедешшшшдедедедедешшдедедедедедедед╢
       цдедедедедедшшшшшдедедедешшшшдшдедедедедедшшшшшдедедедед╢
       цдедедедедедшшшдедедедедедшшедедедедедедедедшшшдешедедед╢
       цдедедедедедшшедедедедедедедедедедедедедедедедедедедедед╢
       юдададададададададададададададададададададададададададады

Services:

ET currently provides a wide variety of Internet-related services within a 
Fido Technical Standards Committee ("FTSC") network. These services include
Internet Mail and Newsgroups feeds, Expressnet UUFax ("UUFax") accounts
and e-mail-by-fax distribution, Expressnet Weather Services ("ETWS"), and
Listserv (ETServ) Services to name a few. 

Additionally, Expressnet has implemented a system whereby dial-up users can 
"File-request" files from other Expressnet sites. This service is called 
ETFtp.  Network nodes and hubs, of course, can make use of standard 
"Fido-style" file requests or "FREQs."

ET will also be offering Listserv services to individuals and organizations 
which wish to establish Internet "Lists" for distribution by e-mail.  
(No mass junk-mailings... sorry)

ET is currently also hosting a commercial e-mail network which offers
Internet Connectivity together with a host of custom-drawn business
communication solutions particularly well suited for small to medium-sized 
firms.  Larger commercial implementations are available as well.  

A variety of inter-and-intra-firm solutions are available in this regard,
and services can be configured for a variety of delivery options on an
individual or firm basis.  The method of delivery ranges from highly 
automated, local area network integration to simple dial-up connections for 
field personnel. At all levels, ET's communication solutions can be tailored 
to meet specific business needs.

Interested parties should send e-mail to:  

  Internet  : info@expressnet.org     <-- Automated Information 
            : faqlist@expressnet.org  <--     "         "
            : Support@expressnet.org  <-- Human Support

Or FREQ ET_KIT from

  FidoNet   : 1:102/819
            : 1:102/908
            : 1:102/918
   
  ExpressNet: 11:310/0
            : 11:310/15

  Fishnet   : 21:71/105
