      The following was written shortly after my arrest. I am currently 
groupless, having resigned from the Racketeers, so ignore the signoff...
 
 
The Consience of a Hacker... by The Mentor 1/8/86
 
 
      Another one got caught today, it's all over the papers. "Teenager 
Arrested in Computer Crime Scandal", "Hacker Arrested after Bank 
Tampering"...
 
      Damn kids. They're all alike.
 
      But did you, in your three-piece psychology and 1950's technobrain, 
ever take a look behind the eyes of the hacker? Did you ever wonder what 
made him tick, what forces shaped him, what may have molded him?
 
      I am a hacker, enter my world...
 
      Mine is a world that begins with school... I'm smarter than most of 
the other kids, this crap they teach us bores me...
 
      Damn underachiever. they're all alike.
 
      I'm a junior in High School. I've listened to teachers explain for 
the 15th time how to reduce a fraction. I understand it. "No Ms. Smith, I 
didn't show my work. I did it in my head..."
 
      Damn kid. Probably copied it. They're all alike.
 
      I made a discovery today. I found a computer. Wait a second, this 
is cool. It does what I want it to. If it makes a mistake, it's because I 
screwed it up. Not because it doesn't like me...
 
      Or feels threatened by me...
 
      Or thinks I'm a smart ass...
 
      Or doesn't like teaching and shouldn't be here...
 
      Damn kid. All he does is play games. They're all alike.
 
      And then it happened... A door opened to a world... rushing through 
the phone line like heroin through an addict's veins, an electronic pulse 
is sent out, a refuge from the day-to-day incompetencies is sought... A 
board is found.
 
      "This is it... This is where I belong..."
 
      I know everyone here... even if I've never met them, never talked 
to them, may never hear from them again... I know them all...
 
      Damn kid. Tying up the phone line again. They're all alike...
 
      You bet you're ass we're all alike... We've been spoon-fed baby 
food when we hungered for steak... the bits of meat that you did let slip 
through were pre-chewed and tasteless. We've been dominated by sadists, 
or ignored by the apathetic. The few that had something to teach found us 
willing pupils, but those are like drops of water in the desert.
 
      This is our world now... the world of the electron and the switch, 
the beauty of the baud. We make use of a service already existing without 
paying for what could be dirt-cheap if it wasn't run by profiteering 
gluttons, and you call us criminals. We explore... and you call us 
criminals. We seek after knowledge... and you call us criminals. We exist 
without skin color, without nationality, without religious bias... and 
you call us criminals. You build atomic bombs, you wage wars, you murder, 
cheat, and lie to use and try to make us believe it's for our own good, 
yet we're the criminals.
 
      Yes, I am a criminal. My crime is that of curiosity. My crime is 
that of judging people by what they say and think, not what they look 
like. My crime is that of outsmarting you, something you will never 
forgive me for.
 
      I am a hacker, and this is my manifesto. You may stop this 
individual, but you can't stop us all... after all, we're all alike.
 
+++The Mentor+++
 
 
