

         Qualifying Examination
          for Co-Sysop Access
 
    Instructions: Read each question 
 carefully. Answer ALL questions! Time
 limit - 4 hours. Begin immediately.
 
 
 HISTORY. Describe the history of the
 papacy from its origins to the present
 day, concentrating especially, but no
 exclusively, on its social, political,
 economic, religious and philosophical
 impact on Europe, Asia, America, and
 Africa. Be brief, concise, and
 specific.
 
 MEDICINE. You have been provided with 
 a razor blade, a piece of gauze, and 
 bottle of Scotch. Remove your
 appendix. Do not suture until your
 work has been inspected. You have
 fifteen minutes.
 
 PUBLIC SPEAKING. There are 2,500
 riot-crazed aborigines storming the
 classroom. Calm them. You may use any
 ancient language, except Latin or
 Greek.
 
 BIOLOGY. Create life. Esitmate the
 difference in subsequent human culture
 if this form of life had developed 500
 million years earlier, with special
 attention to its probable effect on
 the English parliamentary system.
 Prove your thesis.
 
 MUSIC. Write a piano concerto.
 Orchestrate and perform it with flute
 and drum. You will find a piano under
 your seat.
  
 
 PSYCHOLOGY. Based on your knowledge of
 their works, evaluate the emotional
 stability, degree of adjustment and
 repressed frustrations of each of the
 following: Alexander II of Macedon,
 Ramses II, Gregory of Nyssa and
 Hammurabi. Support your evaluation
 with quotations from each man's work,
 making appropriate notations. It is
 not necessary to translate.
 
 SOCIOLOGY. Estimate the sociological
 problems which might accompany the end
 of the world. Construct an experiment
 to test your theory.
 
 MANAGEMENT SCIENCE. Define management.
 Define science. How do they relate?
 Why? Create a generalized formula to
 optimize  all managerial decisions.
 Assuming an 1130 CPU supporting 50
 terminals, each terminal to activate
 your formula, design the communi-
 cations interface and all necessary
 control programs.
 
 ENGINEERING. The disassembled parts of
 a high-powered rifle have been placed
 in a box on your desk. You will find
 an instruction manual, printed in
 Swahili, under your desk. In 10
 minutes, a hungry Bengal tiger will be
 admitted to the room. Take whatever
 action you feel appropriate. Be
 prepared to justify your decision.
 
 ECONOMICS. Develop a realistic plan
 for financing the national debt. Trace
 the possible effects of your plan in
 the following areas: Cubism, the
 Donatist controversy and the wave
 theory of light. Outline a method for
 preventing these effects. Criticize
 this method from all possible points
 of view. Point out the deficiencies in
 your point of view, as demonstrated in
 your answer to the last question.
 
 POLITICAL SCIENCE. There is a red
 telephone on the desk beside you.
 Start World War III. Report at length
 on its socio-political effects,
 if any.
 
 EPISTEMOLOGY. Take a position for or
 against truth. Prove the validity of
 your position.
 
 PHYSICS. Explain the nature of matter.
 Include in your answer an evaluation
 of the impact of the development of   
 mathematics on science.
 
 PHILOSOPHY. Sketch the development of
 human thought; estimate its signifi-
 cance. Compare with the development of
 any other kind of thought.
 
  
 GENERAL KNOWLEDGE. Describe in detail.
 Be objective and specific.
 


