POLICY - Computer Policies                                       Page #1
A.U.C.C.  Public Documentation                                 06-Sep-88
 
 
Document Name: ... POLICY  - Computer Policies
Author: .......... Computer Services Policy Committee
Source File: ..... Stored as POLRNO/UN=CSSRNOW
Last Revision .... 06-Sep-88 (K.L.L.)
Length: .......... 6 Pages
 
 
 
 
                           COMPUTER POLICIES
 
NOTE: these policies  are  currently  being  reviewed  by  the  Computer
Services  Policy  Committee.   Please be advised that these policies may
change - watch for system messages, posters, etc.
 
Certain undesirable activities by users have been  formally  defined  as
abuse.  Computer abusers are liable for monetary payment of their abuse,
restriction or curtailment of computing privileges, and may  be  subject
to  further  discipline  by  the University.  In some cases, they may be
liable for civil or criminal prosecution.
 
These policies govern the use of all of  Acadia's  computing  facilities
which   includes  any  terminals,  microcomputers,  mini-  computers  or
mainframes which are the responsibility of the Computer Centre.
 
Acadia  currently  has  the  following  computer  systems:  Cyber,  Sun,
TurboDOS  1,  2,  4,  and  5.   The  Cyber  is used by all Acadia staff,
faculty, and students.  The Sun and TurboDOS 1 systems are owned by  the
School of Computer Science and are only used by Computer Science faculty
and students.  The TurboDOS 4 and 5 systems are strictly used  by  staff
and faculty members for word processing needs.  The TurboDOS 2 system is
presently restricted to Arts and Science  Graduate  students  and  those
Honours  students  in  Arts  and Science who are currently enrolled in a
thesis course.
 
Acadia also has two public microcomputer labs (an IBM-PC clone lab and a
MacIntosh  lab).   The  microcomputer labs are only for the use of staff
and faculty members and those students who  have  been  sponsored  by  a
department.
 
It is an offense not to follow any policies set by the Computer  Centre,
the  School  of  Computer  Science,  and  the  Computer  Services Policy
Committee.  AS WITH ALL MATTERS OF LAW  AND  ETHICS,  IGNORANCE  OF  THE
RULES DOES NOT EXCUSE VIOLATIONS.
 
In the policies listed below, those marked with an "*" apply to students
only; all other policies apply to all users.  IT IS CONTRARY TO COMPUTER
POLICIES TO:
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                        POLICY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                       Page #2
A.U.C.C.  Public Documentation                                 06-Sep-88
 
 
     1.  Use another person's account  (even  if  you  have  permission)
         unless  it is a special group account which has been authorized
         by the Computer Centre or the appropriate department or School.
         (*) NOTE: Faculty and staff can use another person's account if
         they have permission from the owner.
 
     2.  Attempt to discover another user's password.
 
     3.  Copy, disclose,  or  transfer  any  of  the  computer  software
         provided  by  Acadia University without written permission from
         the Computer Centre or the appropriate department.
 
     4.  Copy  any  of  the  copyrighted  software  provided  by  Acadia
         University.  NOTE: it is illegal to copy any software which has
         a   copyright.    The  use  of  illegally  copied  software  is
         considered a criminal offense and will be dealt with as such.
 
     5.  Use  any  Acadia  University  computer equipment or software to
         violate the terms of any Software Licence Agreement.
 
     6.  Attempt  to  bypass standard procedures.  This includes, but is
         not limited to, unauthorized use of  a  password,  accessing  a
         file  without  permission,  and  reading  an execute only file.
         Lack of file protection does not give you the right to  do  any
         of these things.
 
     7.  Copy, rename, change, examine, or  delete  files  belonging  to
         someone else without the owner's permission.
 
     8.  Deliberately use the computer to annoy others.  For example, to
         send  obscene,  abusive,  or  threatening  messages  is against
         policy.
 
     9.  Use   a  university  computer  for  non-university  work.   For
         example, using Acadia computers for  profit  making  activities
         such as running a word processing service is NOT permitted.
 
     10. Exceed the hour time limit  on  a  terminal  or  microcomputer.
         NOTE:  Computer  Science Graduate students have a two hour time
         limit on the TurboDOS 1 and SUN systems ONLY if they are  using
         the  terminals which are the property of the School of Computer
         Science.  (*) NOTE: TurboDOS 4 and 5 users are required to  log
         off after two hours of use to enable those users who are queued
         to take their turn.
 
     11. Use  a  computer for anything other than course related work or
         faculty supervised research work.  For example, such things  as
         doing work for other students, playing computer games, printing
         posters, etc.  are against policies.  NOTE: TurboDOS 1 and  the
         Sun  cannot  be  used  for anything other than COMPUTER SCIENCE
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                        POLICY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                       Page #3
A.U.C.C.  Public Documentation                                 06-Sep-88
 
 
         course related work or faculty supervised research work  unless
         special written permission is obtained from the Director of the
         School of Computer Science.  (*)
 
     12. Maintain  and  use  an account when you have withdrawn from the
         course for which that account was assigned.
 
     13. Tamper  with terminals, microcomputers, or any other associated
         equipment.  PLEASE REPORT FAULTS TO THE COMPUTER CENTRE.
 
     14. Use more than one terminal and/or microcomputer at a time.
 
     15. Collect or discard output  other  than  your  own  without  the
         owner's permission.
 
     16. Smoke, eat or drink around terminals,  microcomputers,  or  any
         other computer equipment.
 
     17. Use a charge number for work on the CYBER computer  other  than
         that for which the charge number was assigned.
 
                         MICROCOMPUTER POLICIES
 
All of the above policies apply to public microcomputers governed by the
Computer Centre in addition to the following:
 
 
     1.  It is strictly prohibited to use  microcomputers  as  terminals
         when others are waiting to use them as microcomputers.
 
     2.  Using the microcomputer in Carnegie 113 for purposes other than
         file  transfer  is prohibited if another user wishes to use the
         microcomputer for file transfer.
 
     3.  Lab  users  must  store  their files on their own floppy disks.
         They can temporarily store files  on  the  network  hard  disk;
         however,  files  on  the  network  will be subject to automatic
         purging and will not be backed up.
 
     4.  The microcomputer labs are not available for general use during
         the periods when the rooms have  been  reserved  for  teaching.
         Faculty  and  staff  may reserve the labs ONLY during the first
         three weeks of classes on a  first  come  first  served  basis,
         giving  at  least  48  hours  notice  to  the  Computer  Centre
         secretary.
 
     5.  Users  of  the MacIntosh lab must purchase a boot disk from the
         Computer Centre at the beginning of a term as required.   Using
         your own boot disk is strictly prohibited.
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                        POLICY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                       Page #4
A.U.C.C.  Public Documentation                                 06-Sep-88
 
 
     6.  Students cannot use their own copies of extraneous software  in
         the  microcomputer  labs unless the Computer Centre has written
         permission from their professor AND the software is licensed to
         the user in question.
 
     7.  Software will be installed on the microcomputer  networks  ONLY
         if the Computer Centre holds a valid license.
 
     8.  Students who have been issued a key to a microcomputer lab  are
         advised  that  their  lab  privileges  can be suspended if they
         provide access to others.
 
You should be aware that  a  violation  of  any  of  these  policies  is
considered an abuse of the privilege granted to you, and may lead to the
withdrawal of your account and/or other disciplinary action.
 
It should be  noted  that  abusers  are  normally  identified  by  their
usernames.   Users  who reveal or allow others to use their accounts may
find themselves restricted if others abuse the system in their name.
 
When in doubt, it is best to do only what  you  have  been  specifically
permitted  to do; e.g.  if you have permission to use a program or file,
do not make a copy (even on paper) unless you have been explicitly  told
you may do so.
 
Time-Out Policy
 
Any user who remains idle on a computer system (except for the Sun)  for
twenty  minutes  will  be automatically logged off by the system after a
warning message is issued.  NEVER LEAVE YOUR TERMINAL UNATTENDED.
 
Restoring Files
 
The Computer Centre does a daily backup of files and in the event  of  a
system crash, we restore lost files, free of charge.  However, if a file
is accidentally deleted, the Computer Centre charges $10 to restore it.
 
Cyber Output Policy
 
The page limit for student accounts  is  approximately  50  pages.   Any
output  over 50 pages or any special form request (eg.  narrow or blank)
requires the signature of your professor.  Output not conforming to this
rule will be deleted after 24 hours.
 
The lineprinter is NOT to be used as a printing press.  Any user wishing
to have multiple copies of a document should use an alternate printer if
one is available (perhaps belonging to his/her  department).   Any  user
who does print multiple copies on the Cyber lineprinters will be charged
at the current print shop rates for multiple copies.
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                        POLICY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                       Page #5
A.U.C.C.  Public Documentation                                 06-Sep-88
 
 
Generally speaking, users who route documents over 200 pages  will  also
be  charged at current print shop rates for each page over the 200 pages
unless prior permission is obtained from the Computer Centre.
 
Policy For TurboDOS 2, 4 and 5 Output
 
All users of TurboDOS 2, 4 and 5 will be charged 2.5 cents per page  for
rough  draft  printing  and  15  cents per page for letter- quality.  On
April 1 of each year, a credit of 1500 pages  of  rough  draft  printing
will  be  given  to  each TurboDOS 4 and 5 user.  TurboDOS 4 and 5 users
will be sent a monthly bill for any printing charges incurred.
 
On May 1 of each year, a credit of 900 pages  of  rough  draft  printing
will  be  given  to  each TurboDOS 2 user.  All TurboDOS 2 users will be
required  to  prepay  an  amount  at   Student   Accounts   BEFORE   any
letter-quality  printing  will  be  allowed.   Once the credit for rough
draft printing runs out, students will be required to prepay  for  rough
draft  printing  as well.  Student Accounts require a minimum payment of
$15 (this will allow the user  to  print  100  pages  of  letter-quality
output).  Every time a file is printed, the system will check to see how
much money has been prepaid for every page that is printed.  The  charge
for  the  printing  of  each  page  will  be subtracted from the prepaid
amount.  Once the prepaid amount is zero,  printing  will  be  disabled.
This means that if you run out of money in the middle of a printout, you
will only receive that portion which is  paid  for.   Printing  will  be
enabled  once  you  pay  some more money to Student Accounts.  Any money
which is left over when the user  has  completed  his  thesis  work  and
closed his/her account will be returned to the user.
 
It is contrary to computer policies to route  large  outputs  (over  100
pages) to the TurboDOS 2, 4 and 5 printers during the day (8:30 a.m.  to
4:30 p.m.)  unless it  has  been  scheduled  with  the  Computer  Centre
operator.    The   Computer  Centre  reserves  the  right  to  drop  any
non-scheduled large jobs.
 
Floppy Disk Policy
 
The Computer Centre can archive  TurboDOS  files  on  8"  floppy  disks.
Users who want this service must provide their own floppies.  Such disks
can be stored in  the  Computer  Centre  or  kept  by  the  user.   This
archiving  service  is provided free of charge.  The Computer Centre can
also read or write various formats of 5 1/4" floppy disks for  a  charge
of  $10 per floppy (this does not include the price of the floppy disk -
users must provide their own).  This  charge  applies  to  all  faculty,
staff,  and  students.   Presently,  the Computer Centre can handle most
CP/M formats, as well as standard MS-DOS.  Apple  computer  formats  are
not  supported.   Users  wishing  to  have a floppy disk read or written
should contact the Systems Analyst in Charge of Microcomputers 48  hours
in advance.
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                        POLICY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                       Page #6
A.U.C.C.  Public Documentation                                 06-Sep-88
 
 
Magnetic Tape Policy
 
Magnetic tapes will be registered in the Computer Centre's tape  library
after  a  release  form has been signed.  Tapes can only be mounted from
9:30 a.m.  until 4:30 p.m.  (with the exception of  noon  hour),  Monday
through Friday.
 
Consulting is provided to aid users in transferring  data  to  and  from
magnetic  tapes.   However,  if  the  user  is  unwilling  to  write the
procedures to transfer  the  data  himself,  the  Computer  Centre  will
provide this service but may charge up to a maximum of $10.  If the tape
is coming from or going to a foreign site, the charge will be up to $15.
Any  users  wishing  to  use  this  service  should contact the Academic
Consultant - 48 hours notice is required.
 
 
 
POLICY - Computer Policies                                        POLICY
 
Note:
 
A new procedure is now in place for dealing with students who violate Centre
policies such as illegal copies of software on any Acadia equipment.  A first
offense will result in an account suspension for a period of one week, the end
of which an account suspension form must be signed before account renewal.
Punishment for other infractions depends on the nature of the offence and is
often decided by the department head.

