(Administrative Policies)

(Overview)
The  Center  for  Computing  Activities   is
maintained   by   the   University   as   an
educational  and  research  facility for its
faculty, research staff, and students.
It also supports the data processing requirements  of
its  administrative offices.
Usage of the facility is allowed to other
organizations by special permission  and upon
the payment of appropriate fees.

(Illegal Usage)

Each user is responsible for  insuring  that
his/her use  of the computing facility does not
interfere with other users  or  with  proper
functioning  of the system.  The Director of
Computing  Activities  or   his   representative(s)
may take any of the actions listed
below against violators of this precept.
This list is not inclusive.



Termination  of  a  program  or   online
session:    an   irresponsible   user  at  a
terminal may be logged  off.   Similarly,  a
harmful   job   running   on any system may be
cancelled.

Improper use of a project number
may be reported to the project sponsor.

Invalidation of a project number  or  ID.
A  project  number or terminal system ID may
be invalidated.   Alternatively,  a  request
may  be  made  that  the  project  number or
terminal ID be changed.

Serious incidents  may be  referred directly  to the  appropriate
academic or outside authorities.   <Unauthorized use of  Center
facilities is  a  criminal  offense.   The  penalties  
may be as  severe as dismissal  from the University,  or
prosecution>.


Listed below are some examples of activities
which are harmful to  other  users  and  are
not allowed.   This  list  is illustrative and
not inclusive.


Unauthorized use of project numbers or ID's;  unauthorized  access
to   another   person's   files;   using   or  changing  
another person's password without authorization.

Use of a  University  project  number  to
perform computing services for commercial or
other  organizations outside the University, except for outside users.
Such prohibited services include development
of  programs  for  commercial  users,   data
processing,   computations,  preparation  of
advertising material, etc.

Possession in a   file,  or
use  of  programs  capable  of  fraudulently
simulating system responses; modification of
or    possession    of    systems    control
information,  especially that which reflects
program   state,   status   or   accounting;
attempts to modify or crash the system.

Frivolous,  disturbing,   or   otherwise
inconsiderate  conduct in the terminal areas, as well as the 
use of terminals for  sending
nuisance  or  obscene messages, wasteful use
of the facilities for making signs, posters,
calendars, etc., on the printers.  

No game playing is allowed on any CUCCA system.

(System Security)

CUCCA  makes  every  effort  to  ensure  the
integrity  of  its  various  systems.    All
computer systems available to users offer
some form of dataset protection which can be
modified  by  an authorized user as 
needed.   However,  none  of  the  systems
offer  absolute  dataset
security.   Thus,  users  should
never   place   sensitive   information   on
publicly  accessible online volumes (disks).
The Center cannot, under  any  circumstance,
be  held liable for the consequences of such
actions.

(System Performance)

CUCCA reserves the right  to   hold,   cancel, or  restart a    
job or program  to   improve  system performance.  The Computer Center also
reserves  the  right  to sign  off  any  user--if possible, 
with proper notification--if 
CUCCA   policy is violated,   or  it is believed that the programs
being  run  are  adversely affecting   the   performance   of   a
system. 

(Statement of Liability)

CUCCA  cannot  be  held  liable  for  any  losses,
including  lost  revenues, or  for  any  claims  or
demands against the user by any other  party.   In
no   event   can   CUCCA   be   held   liable  for
consequential  damages  even  if  CUCCA  has  been
advised of the possibility of such damages.  CUCCA
cannot be held responsible for  any damages due to
the loss of output,  loss  of  data,  time  delay,
system  performance,  software  performance, incorrect advice from a 
consultant, or any other damages
arising from the use of CUCCA's computer facilities.  CUCCA  will
attempt  to  correct  conditions  and make appropriate refunds in
accordance with the conditions outlined in  Chapter  3, ``Accounting,'' 
in  the section on CUCCA Refund Policy.




P.S.  Some of this goes too far, like no games and such, but I think it's
a pretty good document.
	You might want to put something about whether or not you will
	read a person's mail.  There is a federal law about that, but
	I'm not sure what it is.  I know the best thing to claim is that
	under normal cercumstances, you will not read a person's mail
	or files, but that you are not going to guarentee that the mail
	and/or files will *not* be read.  (Otherwise a person can sue
	your pants off!)


