                         DANIEL WEBSTER

      Ethical Practices Agreement for Work-Study Students

As a condition of my employment in one or more administrative
offices of the College, I agree to abide by the following
policies and practices:

1.  Data on DWC students is confidential.  In particular, the
    student's Social Security account number must be protected
    due to its potential use in scams and other activities that
    are detrimental to the student.  I will not reveal any
    information about individual students to any outside the
    department for which I am working, except as instructed to
    do so by my supervisor.  I further acknowledge that each
    student can specify greater restrictions on personal data
    which override general policies.  I will not use the
    College's computers to browse through any data or look up
    information for my own purposes.

2.  I will not leave screens or printouts in such a state as to
    allow viewing of data by unauthorized people.  I will not
    remove any magnetic storage media (diskettes, tapes, etc.)
    from the department except when bringing it to another
    department under the direction of my supervisor.  If I am
    sent to retrieve output from a shared printer, I will take
    care to read only headers of the printouts for the purpose
    of identifying which printouts belong to my department.  I
    will not discard any documents or erase any files except as
    directed to do so by my supervisor.

3.  If assigned to do administrative work on a computer, I will
    use the computer only for such work.  I agree that any
    software that I would like to load onto an administrative
    computer must be reviewed by my supervisor and by the
    Director of the Computer Center.  When entering data, I will
    accurately enter only the data provided, making no
    deliberate errors.

4.  If I am given a password for a user account on a computer, I
    agree to keep the password confidential within the
    department for which I am working and not to reveal it to
    anyone.  I will not allow usage of my department's programs
    or data by anyone except those people designated by my
    supervisor as being permitted to use them.  All questions
    regarding revealing data to other departments or outside
    agencies shall be referred to a permanent staff member of my
    department.

5.  I will not use electronic mail on administrative computers
    except as directed to do so by my supervisor.  If I should
    receive an unexpected mail message, I will bring it to the
    attention of a permanent staff member of my department.

I have read and understood the above, and understand that the
above will be enforced by College regulations and may be
enforced by State and Federal law as well.

       Name:                                        Date:
                         DANIEL WEBSTER

                   Ethical Practices Agreement

1.  I will not add, remove, or change any files used by the
    operating system or by the user community at large except as
    directed to do so by the Director of the Computer Center.
    (The term "change any files" includes changing of header
    information such as access permissions.)

2.  I will not start or stop any processes that are part of the
    default state of operation, nor shut down the computer,
    except as directed to do so by the Director of the Computer
    Center.

3.  I will not read any electronic mail messages without the
    consent of the addressee.  (When a message is addressed to
    several recipients, the consent of any one addressee is
    sufficient.)

4.  I will not destroy any files on a tape or removable disk,
    other than my own personal files, except as directed to do so
    by the Director of the Computer Center.

5.  I will not create new user accounts nor expand the privileges
    or quotas of an existing user account, except as directed to
    do so by the Director of the Computer Center.

6.  I will not reveal the password on any user account, including
    my own, to anyone except as directed to do so by the Director
    of the Computer Center.

I agree to abide by the above rules as a condition of holding
higher-than -normal privileges on one or more of the College's
computers.  I acknowledge that College, State, or Federal
penalties may apply to violations of the above.



   Signature                                       Date 

