                 Draft Computer Ethics Statement
              Ad Hoc Committee on Computer Literacy
                    James Madison University
 
Computer facilities operated by the University are available for
the use of students, faculty and staff without charge.  Students,
faculty and staff are encouraged to use University computer
facilities for research and instruction.  In order to facilitate
the ethical and responsible use of computers, the following
guidelines are established for students, faculty and staff.
Instructors or departments may impose additional requirements or
restrictions in connection with course or departmental work.
 
1.   General Principles
 
     Respect for intellectual labor and creativity is vital to
     academic discourse and enterprise.  This principle applies
     to works of all authors and publishers in all media.  It
     encompasses respect for the right to acknowledgement, right
     to privacy, and right to determine the form, manner and
     terms of publication and distribution.
 
     Because electronic information is so volatile and easily
     reproduced, respect for the work and personal expression of
     others is especially critical in computer environments.
     Violations of authorial integrity, including plagiarism,
     invasion of privacy, unauthorized access, and trade secrets
     and copyright violations, may be grounds for sanctions
     against members of the academic community.
 
2.   Academic Dishonesty in a Computer Assignment
 
     a.   Academic dishonesty in a computer assignment will be
          suspected if an assignment that calls for independent
          work results in two or more solutions so similar that
          one can be converted to another by a mechanical
          transformation.
 
     b.   Academic dishonesty in a computer assignment will be
          suspected if a student who was to complete an
          assignment independently cannot explain both the
          intricacies of the solution and the techniques used to
          generate that solution.
 
     c.   The Honor Council will be notified of occurrences of
          academic dishonesty.
 
3.   Examples
 
     a.   The following are examples of academically honest
          practices:
 
          Turning in work done alone or with the help of the
          course's staff.
 
          Submission of one assignment for a group of students if
          group work is explicitly permitted or required.
 
          Getting or giving help on how to do something using the
          VAX VMS operating system.
 
          Getting or giving help on how to solve minor syntax
          errors.
 
          High-level discussion of course material for better
          understanding.
 
          Discussion of assignments to understand what is being
          asked for.
 
     b.   The following are examples of academically dishonest
          practices:
 
          Turning in someone else's work as your own (with or
          without his or her knowledge)
 
          Allowing someone else to turn in your work as his or
          her own.
 
          Several people writing one program and turning in
          multiple copies, all represented either implicitly or
          explicitly as individual work.
 
          Using any part of someone else's work without the
          proper acknowledgement.
 
          Stealing a solution from an instructor.
 
4.   Ethical and Responsible Use of the Computer
 
     a.   The University provides computing facilities free of
          charge to students and faculty for instruction and
          research.  It is a violation of University policy to
          use University computers for commercial purposes
          without proper approval.
 
     b.   Computer communications systems and networks promote
          the free exchange of ideas and information, thus
          enhancing teaching and research.  Computer users should
          not use electronic communications systems such as mail
          or BITNET to harass others or interfere with their work
          on the computer.
 
     c.   Students, faculty and staff who use the computer have
          the right to privacy and security of their computer
          programs and data.  Computer users should not tamper
          with files or information that belong to other users or
          to the operating system.
 
     d.   United States copyright and patent laws protect the
          interests of authors, inventors and software developers
          in their products.  Software license agreements serve
          to increase compliance with copyright and patent laws,
          and to help insure publishers, authors and developers
          of return on their investments.  It is against federal
          law and University policy to violate the copyrights or
          patents of computer software.  It is against University
          policy and may be a violation of state or federal law
          to violate software license agreements.  Students,
          faculty or staff may not use programs obtained from
          commercial sources or other computer installations
          unless written authority to use them has been obtained
          or the programs are within the public domain.
 
     e.   Security systems for computers exist to insure that
          only authorized users have access to computer
          resources.  Computer users must not attempt to modify
          system facilities or attempt to crash the system, nor
          should they attempt to subvert the restrictions
          associated with their computer accounts, the networks
          of which the University is a member, or microcomputer
          software protections.
 
     f.   Abuse of computing privileges will be subject to
          disciplinary action.  Violators will be subject to the
          usual judicial procedures of the University; loss of
          computing privileges may result.  The University
          reserves the right to examine all computer files.
          Abuse of the networks or of computers at other sites
          connected to the networks will be treated as abuse of
          computing privileges at James Madison University.
 
5.   Examples
 
     a.   The following are examples of ethical or responsible
          use of the computer:
 
          Using the computer for grant supported research
          sponsored by a commercial firm with the approval of the
          Vice President for Sponsored Programs.
 
          Using the electronic mail system to correspond with
          colleagues at other colleges or universities.
 
          Sharing diskettes of files of programs or data with
          team members working together on a research project.
 
          Copying software placed in the public domain.
 
          Reporting nonfunctional computer equipment to lab
          assistants or Technical Services repair staff.
 
     b.   The following are examples of unethical or
          irresponsible use of the computer:
 
          Using computer facilities for work done on behalf of a
          commercial firm.
 
          Sending electronic mail messages containing material
          offensive to the receiver.
 
          Copying a file from another computer user's account or
          floppy disk without permission.
 
          Copying copyrighted computer software for use on
          another computer.
 
          Unplugging or reconfiguring computer equipment to make
          it unusable or difficult to use.
 
6.   Acknowledgements
 
     This statement is based upon the following sources:
 
     "The EDUCOM Code," Academic Computing 1 (Spring 1987):78.
 
     "The Catholic University of America's Statement of Ethics in
     the Use of Computers," ACM SIGUCCS Newsletter 19 (Spring
     1989):14.
 
     "Cheating Policy in a Computer Science Department," ACM
     SIGSE Bulletin 12 (July 1980).

