In response to the request for site-specific policies and procedures,
here is the first draft of a policy that we are putting in place here.
This policy has not yet been approved by the dean, the head of academic
computing, the provost, or the university lawyers, so I expect there will
be a number of changes before it is actually enacted and distributed.  It
should be a useful starting point for others embarking on the same process.
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

           College of Engineering Computer Use Policy


                       John Lees, Manager
              Systems and Network Software Services

                   A. H. Case Center for CAE/M
        College of Engineering, Michigan State University
      112 Engineering Building, East Lansing, MI 48824-1226
   lees@egr.msu.edu, lees@msuegr.bitnet, CompuServe 74106,1324


                            ABSTRACT

          This DRAFT Computer Use  Policy  applies  specifi-
     cally  to  the facilities in the College of Engineering
     operated by the Case Center for use by all  College  of
     Engineering  students,  faculty, and staff.  Facilities
     within the College operated by  individual  departments
     or  research  groups  may have more stringent use poli-
     cies.  This policy was drafted by the Ethics Subcommit-
     tee  of  the  Case Center Advisory Committee during the
     1989/90 academic year.  The members  of  the  Committee
     were:  Dr.  Erik  Goodman,  Dr. Robert Barr, John Lees,
     Fred Hall, Steve Southward, and William Su.



A person in violation of this policy may be subject  to  adminis-
trative  action,  with  a penalty of a fine, restitution for ser-
vices used, or loss of computer privileges.  Some actions covered
by  this  policy  are  also  covered by University regulations or
all-University policies, the violation of  which  could  lead  to
academic judicial proceedings.  Some actions covered by this pol-
icy are also covered by City, State, or Federal law,  the  viola-
tion of which could lead to civil or criminal prosecution.

For the purposes of this policy, a user is any  person  consuming
computer resources; a staff member is a person acting in an offi-
cial capacity as a staff member.  The same person may be a  staff
member  during  part  of the day and a user during other parts of
the day.

The terminology used in this policy tends  to  reflect  the  UNIX
operating  system,  which is used on the majority of computers in
the College of Engineering, but  is  intended  to  apply  to  all
operating systems in use in the College.

1.  User Responsibilities

A user of College of Engineering computer facilities should  obey
the following general guidelines.

1.1  Files owned by individual users or staff members are  to  be
     considered as private, whether or not they are accessible by
     other users.

     1.1.1 That you can read a file does not mean  that  you  may
           read a file.  Files belonging to individuals are to be
           considered private property.

     1.1.2 Under no circumstances should you alter  a  file  that
           does  not  belong to you.  The ability to alter a file
           does not give you the right to alter a file.

     1.1.3 The  United  States   Government   [citation   needed]
           includes  electronic mail (email) in the same category
           as messages delivered by the United States Postal Ser-
           vice.  This means that tampering with email, interfer-
           ing with the delivery of email, and the use  of  email
           for criminal purposes may be felony offenses.

1.2  Many resources, such as  file  space,  CPU  cycles,  printer
     queues, batch queues, login sessions, and software licenses,
     are shared by all users.  No user  should  monopolize  these
     shared resources.

     1.2.1 Use as little file space as practical, making  use  of
           available means for compressing and archiving files.

     1.2.2 Terminate all "background" jobs  before  logging  out.
           Long  running,  non-interactive  jobs should be run in
           batch queues (if available).

     1.2.3 Read and follow the posted policies on printer use.

     1.2.4 Make appropriate use of batch queues and  job  priori-
           ties.   Do not load the system in such a way that oth-
           ers cannot perform useful work.

     1.2.5 Do not tie up resources with  multiple,  unused  login
           sessions.

     1.2.6 Relinquish licensed software, such as FrameMaker, when
           you no longer are using the license.

     1.2.7 Respect the resources of workstations located in  pub-
           lic  labs.  Do not login to such a workstation and run
           jobs that would interfere with use of that workstation
           by a person sitting in the lab.

1.3  Not all the computer facilities in the College of  Engineer-
     ing are public resources (public to the College of Engineer-
     ing community).  Users found using non-public facilities may
     be summarily logged-off those resources.

     1.3.1 Some machines are designated as  "file  servers",  and
           carry  login  messages  asking  users to not use these
           machines for login purposes.

     1.3.2 Workstations on faculty and staff desks should not  be
           used  as  login resources without the specific permis-
           sion of the faculty or staff who use those machines.

     1.3.3 Printers and other peripheral devices not  located  in
           public  labs and advertised as available should not be
           used without specific permission.

1.4  Because this is an educational environment, computer systems
     are  generally  open  to perusal and investigation by users.
     This access must not be abused either by attempting to  harm
     the   systems,   or  by  stealing  copyrighted  or  licensed
     software.

     1.4.1 System-level files (not owned by individuals)  may  be
           used  and  viewed  for  educational  purposes if their
           access permissions so allow.

     1.4.2 Most system-level files are  part  of  copyrighted  or
           licensed  software,  and therefore you should not make
           your own copies of these files, in whole or  in  part,
           except  as  needed as part of an educational exercise.
           Removing copies of copyrighted software from the  sys-
           tem  on which it is licensed may be a violation of the
           copyright or license.

     1.4.3 The same standards of intellectual  honesty  and  pla-
           giarism  apply  to  software as to other forms of pub-
           lished work.  Treat system software is if  it  were  a
           library  you  were  browsing.   Acknowledge  borrowing
           code, algorithms, or data structures from the work  of
           other people.

     1.4.4 Making your own copies of software having a restricted
           use  license  is  theft.   So  is  figuring out how to
           "beat" the license.

     1.4.5 Deliberate alteration of system files is vandalism  or
           malicious destruction of University property.

1.5  College of Engineering computing facilities are provided for
     academic  uses  (instruction and research) and some adminis-
     trative uses.

     1.5.1 The license agreements for some pieces of software may
           specifically  restrict  the  software to instructional
           use.  Please check with the Case Center before you use
           licensed   software  for  research  or  administrative
           tasks.

     1.5.2 Do not make use of any University computing facilities
           for  any activity that is commercial in nature without
           first obtaining written approval to do so.  Commercial
           activities  include:  consulting,  developing software
           for sale, and in general any activity  for  which  you
           are paid from non-University funds.

1.6  Facilities are often available on an unmonitored basis.   It
     is  the responsibility of every user to act in such a manner
     as to not cause damage to the physical equipment.

     Accidental damage, or damage caused by other parties, should
     be  reported  as  soon as possible so that corrective action
     can be taken.

     College facilities are paid for and operated  in  part  with
     student money.  Please help take care of them!  Please bring
     problems to staff attention!


2.  User Rights

A user of College of Engineering computer facilities has the fol-
lowing rights and privileges.

2.1  You should not be denied access to facilities by someone who
     is  not  using  the facilities for research or instructional
     purposes, or who is not a student, faculty, or staff  member
     of the College of Engineering.  You have the right to ask an
     appropriate staff member to remove such a person so you  can
     use the facilities.

2.2  You have the right to not be harassed while using College of
     Engineering  facilities,  whether  it  be  physical, verbal,
     electronic, or any other form of abuse.  You have the  right
     to  ask an appropriate staff member to take steps to end any
     abuse to which you are subjected.


3.  Staff Responsibilities

In general, the staff of  the  College  of  Engineering  computer
facilities  has  the  responsibility  of enforcing the rights and
responsibilities of the users of those facilities to the best  of
their  ability.   Several  specific  staff  responsibilities  are
listed below.

3.1  Staff  should  not  make  use  of  facilities  intended  for
     instructional  purposes  unless this is necessary to correct
     an urgent problem.  Instructional facilities should never be
     used  for  day-to-day staff work unless these facilities are
     currently being under-utilized by students.

3.2  Staff should at all times respect the privacy of user files,
     mail, and printer listings (but see Staff Rights below).


4.  Staff Rights

The staff in general have the right to do whatever  is  necessary
to  carry  out their responsibility to keep the College computing
resources operating and available.

4.1  The  networked  computer  environment  in  the  College   of
     Engineering  is  a  facility provided to faculty, staff, and
     students to enable them to accomplish certain tasks required
     by their roles within the College and the University.  There
     is an acknowledged trade-off between the absolute  right  of
     privacy  of  a  user,  and  the  need of the staff to gather
     necessary information to insure the continued functioning of
     this College-wide resource.

     In the normal course of system administration, the staff may
     have  to examine files, mail, and printer listings to gather
     sufficient information to diagnose and correct problems with
     system software, or to determine if a user is acting in vio-
     lation of the policies set  forth  in  this  document.   The
     staff has the right to do this.

     As mentioned in Staff Responsibilities, above, the staff has
     an  obligation  to  maintain  the privacy of a user's files,
     mail, and printer listings.

4.2  Because this is an educational institution, some behavior is
     tolerated,  even  encouraged, that would not be allowed at a
     "normal" commercial site.  This, combined with the fact that
     there is relatively free and uncontrolled access to our sys-
     tems via network connections around the world,  causes  spe-
     cial problems for the staff.

     In general, the staff allows the users great freedom in  use
     of  the  facilities.   However,  there  are certain kinds of
     threatening or damaging behavior  against  which  the  staff
     will  take  action.   For example: owning or using burglar's
     tools, worms, viruses, or trojan horses.

     Any such action will be taken carefully, because  there  may
     be  legitimate  reasons  for  people to have such objects in
     their possession.  Staff will normally take action  only  if
     there  is clear and convincing reason to believe that a user
     is violating the policies outlined in this document.

     A user who feels that s/he has legitimate reason to  experi-
     ment  with  security-related aspects of the computer facili-
     ties should discuss the project with staff before  embarking
     on  the experiment.  This will help prevent a perhaps embar-
     rassing intervention by the staff.


5.  Bibliography

We will attach a bibliography of  pertinent  University  publica-
tions in which to find official rules and regulations.

