Following is the online policy document of PUCC, which is replicated
in the PUCC official publication ZZ-MANUAL.
----
              Statement of Policy on
              --------- -- ------ --
      Use of Computing Center Facilities and Services
      --- -- --------- ------ ---------- --- --------
   (section 1.7 Ethical Behavior in ZZ-Manual.)

     The Computing Center provides computing facilities and
services for the legitimate instructional and research com-
puting needs of the University.  Proper use of those facili-
ties and services supports the legitimate computing activi-
ties of Purdue students, faculty and staff.  Proper use
respects intellectual property rights.

     Legitimate instructional computing is work done by an
officially registered student in support of a recognized
course of study.  Legitimate research computing is work
approved by an authorized official of a University depart-
ment.

     Intellectual property rights begin with respect for
intellectual labor and creativity.  They include the right
to acknowledgment, the right to privacy, and the right to
determine the form, manner and terms of publication and dis-
tribution.

     Proper computing use follows the same standards of com-
mon sense and courtesy that govern use of other public
facilities.  Improper use violates those standards by
preventing others from accessing public facilities or by
violating their intellectual property rights.  Therefore,
the basic policy of the Computing Center on proper use is:

o    Any use of Computing Center facilities or services
     unrelated to legitimate instructional or research com-
     puting is improper if it interferes with another's leg-
     itimate instructional or research computing.

o    Any use of Computing Center facilities or services that
     violates another's intellectual property rights is
     improper.

o    Any use of Computing Center facilities or services that
     violates any local, state or federal law is improper.

     The following sections describe some known instances of
improper use.  They do not constitute a complete list.  When
new occasions of improper use arise, they will be judged and
regulated by the basic policy stated above.

Disruptive Conduct
---------- -------

     Don't behave at any Computing center facility in a way
     that interferes with another's legitimate use of the
     facility.  This includes noisy and over-exuberant con-
     duct.

Damage
------

     Don't damage Computing Center facilities, hardware or
     software.

Enforcement
-----------

     When instances of improper use come to its attention,
the Computer Center will investigate them.  During those
investigations the Computing Center reserves the right to
access private information, including the contents of files
and mailboxes.  Investigations that discover improper use
may cause the Computing Center to:

o    Limit the access of those found using facilities or
     services improperly;

o    Refer flagrant abuses to deans, department heads, the
     University Police, or other authorities for appropriate
     action;

o    Disclose private information to other University
     authorities.
Access to Files
------ -- -----

     Don't read or use others' files without their permis-
     sion.

     Proper usage standards require everyone to take prudent
     and reasonable steps to limit access to their files and
     accounts.

Fraud and Forgery
----- --- -------

     Don't send any form of electronic communication that
     bears a fraudulent origin or identification.  This in-
     cludes the forging of another's identity on electronic
     mail or news postings.

Harassment
----------

     Don't use University computing facilities to harass
     anyone.  This includes the use of insulting, obscene or
     suggestive electronic mail or news, tampering with oth-
     ers' files, and invasive access to others' equipment.

Networks
--------

     Don't use local, national and international networks
     for things that are not legitimate instructional or
     research activities of the University.  This includes,
     but is not limited to: purely personal electronic mail;
     articles for commercial gain posted on electronic news
     networks; and repeated attempts to access restricted
     resources.

Unauthorized Use of Accounts
------------ --- -- --------

     Don't access an account not specifically authorized to
     you, whether it is on a Computing Center system or one
     at another place.  Don't use an account for a purpose
     not authorized when the account was established, in-
     cluding personal and commercial use.

     Don't engage in computing activities that are designed
     to invade the security of accounts at the Computing
     Center or any other place.  Attempts to decipher
     passwords, to discover unprotected files, or to decode
     encrypted files are examples.

     Proper usage standards require everyone to take prudent
     and reasonable steps to prevent unauthorized access.

Unauthorized Use of Software
------------ --- -- --------

     Don't make unauthorized copies of licensed or copy-
     righted software.  Don't violate the terms or restric-
     tions on the use of software defined in official agree-
     ments between the University and other parties.

     Examples include: the copying of software from personal
     computers unless it is clearly and specifically identi-
     fied as public domain software that may be freely
     redistributed; and the copying of restricted Unix
     source code.  Read the policy topic "unix-licensing"
     for more information on Unix license restrictions.

Rules for Access to UNIX Source Code
----- --- ------ -- ---- ------ ----

One of the big factors in the increasing popularity of the UNIX
operating system at Purdue is how easily UNIX source code applications
can be moved among different variations of the UNIX system.  This
process, commonly called porting, often requires nothing more than
copying and compiling an application to move it from one UNIX platform
to another.  The porting process is so simple that it is easy to lose
sight of the ownership of individual programs and the license agreement
restrictions on their source code.

1. License Agreements
-- ------- ----------

Source code for computer programs is usually owned by the organization
that developed the programs.  Since many of these organizations have an
economic stake in their developmental investment, they don't just give
it away.  At a minimum, they usually declare their copyright on the
programs.  But legally, a more powerful means exists:  a license
agreement.

Software license agreements are contracts in which the seller agrees to
provide the program, and perhaps its source code, provided that the
buyer agrees to abide by the rules of the license.  Sellers can specify
just about any rules they desire so long as the buyer agrees to those
rules.  And just to make life interesting, every seller of computer
software seems to have its own special rules to follow.

Some programs are distributed in source form without a license
agreement.  They may be totally unrestricted (called ``public domain'')
or the owner may retain the copyright but allow free distribution.  A
lot of useful software designed to run on UNIX systems is distributed
this way.  As a user of one of Purdue's systems, you may find source
code to such programs in various system directories.

2. Source Code at PUCC
-- ------ ---- -- ----

Whenever possible, most UNIX system administrators at Purdue strive to
obtain the source code for programs because it makes it easier to
maintain systems and quickly fix problems.  In order to obtain source
code for commercial software systems, it is necessary to negotiate the
``Terms and Conditions'' of the software license agreement with each
software vendor.  Some of those agreements permit anyone at Purdue to
have access to the source code while others stipulate restrictions.
Therefore, you may find that you have access to source code which is
restricted by a license agreement.  Just because you have access does
not mean you have the right to port a program to another system.

When it comes to the UNIX operating system and its associated utilities
and libraries, Purdue University adheres to license agreements with
AT&T, the University of California at Berkeley, and other vendors who
redistribute UNIX.  These license agreements specify the rules under
which we may have access to the source code in the first place.

The primary UNIX license for Purdue is its educational software
agreement with AT&T.  The agreement, administered by the Engineering
Computer Network (ECN), allows the use of the source code for AT&T's
System V, Release 3.2 UNIX on systems at Purdue that have been
registered with AT&T.  Registration currently costs $400 per system and
is the first step that every administrator of a Purdue UNIX system must
take before gaining access to any AT&T System V source code or its
derivatives.

Purdue's agreement with the University of California at Berkeley for
access to its Fourth Berkeley Software Distribution (BSD), currently
known as 4.3BSD or 4.3BSD-Tahoe, grants BSD source access to any system
at Purdue that is registered with the AT&T agreement.

A variety of other UNIX license agreements also have been signed by
Purdue and UNIX resellers.  All of these licenses require AT&T
registration, including Digital Equipment Corporation's ULTRIX,
Hewlett-Packard's HP-UX, Sequent's DYNIX, and Sun Corporation's SunOS
among many others.  Vendors usually place additional restrictions on
the redistribution of their sources to protect the value they
have added.

If you have a UNIX system of any kind and want to obtain source access,
please follow these rules:

    o Register your system under the Purdue AT&T agreement.  Contact Mary
      Burwell at ECN (317) 494-3516 for more information.

    o Check with the source-code vendor to determine if an additional
      vendor license is required.  Follow the vendor's restrictions on
      redistributing the vendor's source code.  (PUCC cannot supply you
      with source code for ULTRIX or DYNIX, for example, because of the
      restrictions in its licenses with Digital Equipment Corporation and
      Sequent.)

    o Source code access for most Sun UNIX systems is provided under
      agreements between Purdue and the Sun Corporation.  The system on
      which the sources are being used must also be registered with the
      AT&T agreement.

    o When in doubt, do not assume you have the right to copy sources
      from another UNIX system to your own; contact the AT&T license
      administrator at ECN or the administrator of the system from which
      you wish to copy the sources before doing so.
Waste
-----

     Don't use Computing Center facilities wastefully.  This
     includes squandering expendable resources, processor
     cycles or network bandwidth.  Use expendable resources
     such as paper prudently, and recycle them if possible.
     Use a system whose capacity is appropriate to the size
     of the computing task.
