                September, 1989

Frank Young
Chairman, Department of Computer Science
Rose-Hulman Institute of Technology
young@rosevc.rose-hulman.edu


ROSE-HULMAN INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
POLICY ON COMPUTER AND SOFTWARE USE

        The Department of Computer Science is very concerned about the proper
care and use of computer equipment and computer software.  The computers and
software that are available in the departmentUs laboratory are vital to the
educational program of the department.  All students benefit from the proper
care and use of this equipment.  To ensure that there are no misunderstandings
we are providing the following description of the departmentUs policies
regarding its laboratory equipment.

EQUIPMENT:  Computer equipment is expensive and the money available for its
replacement is severely limited.  All persons using Department of Computer
Science equipment are expected to take proper care of that equipment.  Any
malfunction should be reported to the department office immediately and a
notice of the malfunction placed on the appropriate equipment.  Do not 
attempt to repair or modify equipment.  Please read instructions posted 
near machines and consult manuals as necessary.  Please leave equipment 
and manuals in the same condition and location they were in originally.  
Theft of equipment will not be tolerated.  We cannot allow people to 
borrow equipment, software, or manuals.

SOFTWARE:  Software purchased by the department may be used only on department
machines.  Unauthorized use of department software is software piracy,
otherwise known as theft, and will be dealt with as such.  Computer 
science students are expected to be especially diligent concerning software 
piracy because they know that quality software is valuable and that 
software developers should be appropriately rewarded.  Software use 
that is not permitted by the software license will not be tolerated.

DATA FILES:  Files available for public use should not be deleted without
authorization.  Files which are not available for public use (e.g., because
they are in an individualUs private account) are to be treated as 
private property.  Attempts to delete or alter personal files will 
not be tolerated.  This includes attempts to acquire passwords, the 
creation of Trojan Horses, etc.  Unless you have been authorized to 
do so, do not leave your personal programs and documents on department 
computer hard disks.  This is an inappropriate use of the resource
and you run the very real risk of losing your work.

PRANKS, JOKES, ETC.:  Programs that erase directories, programs that perform
strange and dangerous things, programs that are made available to the public
with misleading names, programs that freeze terminals, and programs that 
lock up the machine for a specified period of time are unacceptable.  
It should not require too much analysis to figure out what kinds of 
programs fall into this category.  It should be obvious that the members 
of the department fail to find anything humorous in such programs.  We 
suggest that before you become too enthralled with the supposed humor 
of your latest fun idea you first think about the reaction you would 
have as the victim.

HOUSEKEEPING AND SECURITY:  It should not be necessary to mention everyones
obligation to return manuals to their proper location, to keep the work
environment neat, to keep food and drink away from expensive equipment, and to
respect the rights and needs of others who work in the department area.
Students must have written authorization to use the departmentUs facility after
normal working hours.  The departmentUs laboratory is provided so that computer
science students can do necessary course and project work.  Please clean up and
lock up when you leave.

SMOKING:  Tobacco smoke has great potential for damaging computers and computer
users.  The residual smell of burned tobacco is not the most pleasant perfume
known to humanity.  The Department of Computer Science is a smoke-free work
environment.  Please do not light any fires in the departmentUs facilities.

OTHER COMPUTERS:  The department cannot dictate policies regarding use of other
computer equipment.  However, you should be aware of the policies that are in
effect whenever you use any computer equipment that is not your own.  If there
are no written policies we encourage you to use our policies as a guide.
Computer technology is changing very rapidly and our ethical and legal
standards have lagged behind.  It is the responsibility of all computer 
professionals to demonstrate by their actions that free and open use of 
computing resources is not only desirable but possible.






