********
5/26/90



POLICY: PROPER USE OF INFORMATION RESOURCES, INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY,
AND NETWORKS AT THE UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN



It is the policy of the University to maintain access for its
community to local, national and international sources of information
and to provide an atmosphere that encourages access to knowledge and
sharing of information.

It is the policy of the University that information resources will be
used by members of its community with respect for the public trust
through which they have been provided and in accordance with policy
and regulations established from time to time by the University and
its operating units.

In accordance with the above policies, the University works to create
an intellectual environment in which students, staff, and faculty may
feel free to create and to collaborate with colleagues both at the
University of Michigan and at other institutions, without fear that
the products of their intellectual efforts will be violated, violated
by misrepresentation, tampering, destruction and/or theft.

Access to the information resource infrastructure both within the
University and beyond the campus, sharing of information, and security
of the intellectual products of the community, all require that each
and every user accept responsibility to protect the rights of the
community. Any member of the University community who, without
authorization, accesses, uses, destroys, alters, dismantles or
disfigures the University information technologies, properties or
facilities, including those owned by third parties, thereby threatens
the atmosphere of increased access and sharing of information,
threatens the security within which members of the community may
create intellectual products and maintain records, and in light of the
University's policy in this area, has engaged in unethical and
unacceptable conduct. Access to the networks and to the information
technology environment at the University of Michigan is a privilege
and must be treated as such by all users of these systems.

To ensure the existence of this information resource environment,
members of the University community will take actions, in concert with
State and Federal agencies and other interested parties, to identify
and to set up technical and procedural mechanisms to make the
information technology environment at the University of Michigan and
its internal and external networks resistant to disruption.

In the final analysis, the health and well-being of this resource is
the responsibility of its users who must all guard against abuses
which disrupt and/or threaten the long-term viability of the systems
at the University of Michigan and those beyond the University. The
University requires that members of its community act in accordance
with these responsibilities, this policy, relevant laws and
contractual obligations, and the highest standard of ethics.

Though not exhaustive, the following material defines the University's
position regarding several general issues in this area.*

The University characterizes as unethical and unacceptable, and just
cause for taking disciplinary action up to and including
non-reappointment, discharge, dismissal, and/or legal action, any
activity through which an individual:

(a) violates such matters as University or third party copyright or
patent protection and authorizations, as well as license agreements
and other contracts,

(b) interferes with the intended use of the information resources,

(c) seeks to gain or gains unauthorized access to information
resources,

(d) without authorization, destroys, alters, dismantles, disfigures,
prevents rightful access to or otherwise interferes with the integrity
of computer-based information and/or information resources,

(e) without authorization invades the privacy of individuals or
entities that are creators, authors, users, or subjects of the
information resources,


This policy is applicable to any member of the University community,
whether at the University or elsewhere, and refers to all information
resources whether individually controlled, or shared, stand alone or
networked. Individual units within the University may define
"conditions of use" for facilities under their control. These
statements must be consistent with this overall policy but may provide
additional detail, guidelines and/or restrictions. Where such
"conditions of use" exist, enforcement mechanisms defined therein
shall apply. Where no enforcement mechanism exists, the enforcement
mechanism defined in the ITD Conditions of Use Policy shall prevail.
Disciplinary action, if any, for faculty and staff shall be consistent
with the University Standard Practice Guides and the Bylaws of the
Regents of the University. Where use of external networks is involved,
policies governing such use also are applicable and must be adhered
to.


* Information resources in this document are meant to include any
information in electronic or audio-visual format or any hardware or
software that make possible the storage and use of such information.
As example, included in this definition are electronic mail, local
databases, externally accessed databases, CD-ROM, motion picture film,
recorded magnetic media, photographs, and digitized information such
as the content of MIRLYN.
