contact "Greg Johnson -aka CCGREG@UMCVMB.MISSOURI.EDU" 

                     University of Missouri-Rolla
                         Computing Guidelines
                            June 15, 1989


The computing facilities are provided in order to promote and support
academic pursuits.  Academic computing facilities are therefore to be
used only for instruction and research activities.

Listed here are certain responsibilities and the ethical behavior
expected of you as a computer user.  The guidelines presented here
reflect U.S. Copyright Law, the Law of the State of Missouri, and
additional specific rules imposed by UMR Computing Services.  The
Computer Center will try to keep current copies of the pertinent
federal and state statutes on hand for your reference.


               U.S. Copyright Law and Software Licensing

* All computer software is protected by the federal copyright law.

* Most of the software available in university facilities is
  proprietary and is protected by legal licensing agreements in
  addition to the copyright law.

* Special provision for copying may be granted by the copyright owner
  and will be specified within the software package, documentation, or
  license agreement.  Inspect these provisions carefully before making
  any copies.

* Under no circumstances should copyrighted software be distributed
  outside the university through any mechanism, electronic or
  otherwise.

* You are responsible for being aware of the licensing restrictions
  for the software you use on any system.  Lack of knowledge does not
  justify a violation of the law.

* When in doubt, don't copy.  Violation of copyright law or licensing
  agreements may result in university disciplinary action and/or may
  result in legal action.


              State of Missouri Law  RSMo 569.094-569.099

A state law makes unauthorized access and interference with computer
systems, computer data, and other computer users illegal.

* Do not attempt to access any computer unless you are authorized.

* Protect your passwords.  You are responsible for unauthorized use of
  your userid as well as for refraining from using someone else's
  userid.

* Accessing the private computer files of others, even if those files
  are unprotected, is illegal.

* Do not endanger or interfere with the operation of any computer
  system.


                         Additional UMR Rules

Always apply normal standards of academic ethics and polite conduct to
your use of computing services.

* Respect the equipment and privacy of others.

* Drinks, food, tobacco smoke, and chewing tobacco are not allowed in
  university computing facilities.

* University computing facilities may not be used for personal profit.

* Your computing activities should not interfere with the rights of
  other users.  Examples of activities you should avoid:

  - tying up computer resources for game playing or trivial
    applications,

  - sending annoying or obscene messages to any other user,

  - using computing systems for personal activities that are not
    required for class of for research.

  - importing software of unknown function and quality.  This is the
    primary mechanism for spreading viruses.

* In order to receive user support from the Computer Center or
  vendors, you may be asked to produce the manuals, original
  diskettes, serial number, or other proof of proper software
  licensing.  In addition, vendors normally do not allow users of
  questionable software to upgrade to a new version of the product.


                         Disciplinary Action

Misuse of university computing facilities will be reported to the
Director of Computing Services.  The Director can impose restrictions
on the offender's computer access, report the incident to either the
Vice Chancellor of Student Affairs or the Vice Chancellor of Academic
Affairs (whichever is appropriate).  Please keep in mind that
violation of U.S. or Missouri laws may result in legal action.

Note: The Rolla statement is interesting in that it references Missouri Revised
Statutes.  
