Ethics of Computer Use
ETHICS RULES PASSWORD USERIDS SECURITY
 
	   Institution:  University of Missouri - Columbia
	   Date:         01 Feb 1989
	   Contact:      CSPKB@UMCVMB.MISSOURI.EDU or CCGREG@UMCVMB.MISSOURI.EDU
 
                           THE ETHICS OF COMPUTER USE
                           __________________________
 
Computing  on  the Columbia campus is available in much the same way as the re-
sources in the library.  Thus, computing and computers should not be used  just
to  solve  computing  problems  and assignments;   they should be thought of as
tools and resources to be used to facilitate education.
 
In accordance with this "Library Model", computing is available to any faculty,
staff, or student on the Columbia campus. These facilities, however, are  lim-
ited and should not be used frivolously.
 
 
GENERAL RULES FOR COMPUTER USE
 
o   Try  to conserve resources.  This includes disk and tape storage, CPU time,
    memory, paper, and plotter supplies, and other computing facilities.
 
o   Never unnecessarily prevent others from using a terminal or other resource.
 
o   Be careful to protect IDs, accounts, files, printouts, and  other  computer
    resources from unauthorized use.
 
o   Never use any ID, account, or file without proper authorization.
 
You must never:
 
o   use a student user ID other than your own
 
o   use or intentionally seek access to an ID other than yours
 
o   copy data or software without proper authorization
 
o   send messages to unwilling recipients
 
o   frivolously use electronic mail or messaging
 
o   spend excessive time playing games
 
o   distribute a program that damages the user or system environment
 
o   use  computing  facilities  for harassment, plagiarism, or other illegal or
    unethical activities
 
These rules are vigorously enforced.  IDs of users who don't comply with  these
rules are restricted from abused facilities or from all computer access. Severe
cases  of  abuse  have  resulted  in prosecution, termination, or academic pro-
bation.
 
 
YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE THE VICTIM OF COMPUTER ABUSE
 
Even the best of computer systems cannot protect the individual  who  fails  to
conceal  his  or her password.   Leaving a terminal without logging off is like
leaving the door of your home unlocked and open.  Using an obvious password  is
like  hiding your door key under the doormat.  So, physically protect your ses-
sion, pick a new password at random from some  magazine,  and  never  record  a
password where it could be found (desk, terminal, text book, etc.).
 
If  you  suspect  your  user ID's password has been compromised, change it.  On
UMCVMB, the command to do this is "VMSECURE USER", menu choice 1. If you  sus-
pect  someone  else's  password  has been compromised, report it to them or the
Help Desk.
 
Never share a ID's password with anyone.   Researchers needing  to  share  data
should  arrange  this  through individual IDs and linking to disks, rather than
sharing one user ID.
 
Under no circumstances are UMC students to share their  user  ID  and  password
with  anyone.    When  detected, both parties involved lose their IDs.  Any UMC
student can have a CMS user ID and sufficient space for academic  work.    Why,
then,  would anyone want another ID--except for unethical, malicious, or covert
activity?
 
Never run a program sent to you unless you know what  it  does  and  completely
trust the source.  Some "gifts" have been known to erase the recipient's files,
send obscene messages in the recipient's name, replicate themselves, and gener-
ally  cause  trouble  for  the ID on which they were run.  This applies to both
mainframe and micro computers.
 
 
GAME-PLAYING AND CHATTING
 
By far the most common abuse of computing that has been observed here is exces-
sive messaging and game playing.  Communication and games are excellent ways to
introduce people to computing.  UMC allows these activities for  this  purpose,
and most users move on to productive use of electronic mail and other computing
facilities.
 
A few people, however, become addicted to Bitnet, or Relay, or Zork games.  The
worst  public  effect  of  this compulsion has been a lack of free terminals at
some sites.  Anyone observing such unnecessary usage should not hesitate to ask
the user to desist or in reporting the problem to a User Consultant or the Help
Desk.
 
Rather than limit everyone, UMC Campus Computing has tried to identify and deal
with the worst abusers.   The Help Desk will  hear  and  verify  specific  com-
plaints.  Moreover, UM systems log networking, inter-user communications, logon
attempts,  printing,  links, and other activities.  These logs can reveal usage
trends and can be used to verify complaints.  Tape backups of disk  files  pro-
tect users from accidents but also can be used to trace an abuse long after the
incident.
 
 
PLAGIARISM
 
Copying  someone's  computer assignment takes little effort;  so does detecting
and proving such plagiarism.  The standard academic penalties for this are  se-
vere.   Systems staff have cooperated with instructors in verifying plagiarism.
Guilty students have not  only  lost  computing  privileges,  but  have  failed
courses  and have been placed on academic probation.  This has happened even to
students who completed a course and shared their old work with those in a  sub-
sequent semester.
 
Carelessness  can encourage plagiarism.  Be sure to pick up all your output and
discard it carefully!  Report individuals rummaging through  new  or  discarded
output.
 
 
WASTEFULNESS
 
To minimize waiting for processing, printer, or other resources, wasteful users
are  relegated  to low CPU priority, not allowed to print, etc., until they can
be warned and informed.
 
 
TEMPORARY DISKS
 
Temporary disk space (such as obtained by the  TEMPDISK  command)  is  obtained
from  a  shared  pool of space.  UMCVMB does not at this time restrict how much
temporary disk space one may define, so long as it is available. Whatever space
one user ID takes is that much less for others.  Therefore, we ask  that  users
voluntarily:
 
o   define only as much temporary disk space as they need,
 
o   release temporary space when it is no longer needed, and
 
o   on  the UMCVMB system restrict themselves to a total of at most 5 cylinders
    for up to 8 hours of use, or 50 cylinders for 1 hour.
 
Anyone needing more than 50 cylinders should consider working with tape instead
of disk (see "HELP UMCTAPE") or should contact the Help Desk. Inactive sessions
that have large amounts of temporary disk may be forced off.
 
If voluntary conservation does not work, then Campus Computing may have to make
the system enforce temporary disk space limits.
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Campus Computing encourages you to explore the  University's  computer  system,
and  to  use it for genuine educational pursuits.  But if you have doubts about
any extra-curricular computing, consider whether  it  is  consistent  with  the
above rules and responsible, polite conduct.  Consult your advisor or the full-
time staff of Computing Services for counsel or to report suspicious activity.
 
__________
 
Reprinted from the _Campus_Computing_Newsletter_ of the University of Missouri-
Columbia, Vol 16 Number 2, October 1988, pages 5-6.
 

