Contact: "Greg Johnson -aka CCGREG@UMCVMB.MISSOURI.EDU" 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

                           Computer Ethics

                  University of Missouri-Kansas City

Modern computer technology places extraordinary power and information
in the hands of users.   This power carries with it matching
responsibility.  Computer information should be treated no differently
than the written word.  Viewing and using another person's computer
files, programs, or data without authorized permission is an invasion
of privacy and unethical behavior which may be considered plagiarism.
Ethical standards apply even when material is left unprotected.

Respect for intellectual labor and creativity is vital to academic
discourse and enterprise.  This principle applies to works of all
authors and publishers in all media.  It encompasses respect for the
right to acknowledgement, right to privacy, and right to determine the
form, manner, and terms of publication and distribution.  Because
electronic information is volatile and easily reproduced, respect for
the work and personal expression of others is especially critical in
computer environments.  Violations of authorial integrity, including
plagiarism, invasion of privacy, unauthorized access, and trade secret
and copy-right violations, may be grounds for sanctions against
members of the academic community.

(The above paragraphs are reproduced from "Using Software (A Guide to
the Ethical and Legal Use of Software for Members of the Academic
Community").

For questions regarding use of certain software, call the Help Desk.

>From UMKC, Access A New Era, January 1988.

Note: Recently UMC suspended an employee for violating our ethics policies;
specifically, using a pen plotter to draw huge banners for non-university use.
We might not have noticed had not the plotter burned out a couple of times from
cross-hatching 2-foot high block letters.  In addition to being suspended from
work for 6 weeks, his manager asked him to present a research paper on computer
ethics as part of the terms of his reinstatement!

In a similar case here, a graduate student printed thousands of stick-on labels
for a local ethnic grocery.  However, he graduated and returned home before
we could complete the case, so we've let it drop.  We also encountered students
trading their student userids for use with TELNET and e-mail, so our ID policy
requiring enrollment is now enforced much more vigilantly.

