June 27, 1989 
                        Draft  Draft  Draft
                            Cover page

                 UNM ETHICS CODE FOR COMPUTER USE 

     The Computer and Information Resources and Technology (CIRT)
and other UNM units provid computer services to a large number of
faculty, staff, and students, as well as outside clients of the
University.  All computer users have two basic rights -- privacy
and a fair share of resources.  All computer users have the
responsibility to use the CIRT systems in an effective, efficient,
ethical, and lawful manner.  The ethical and legal standards that
are to be maintained are derived directly from standards of common
sense and common decency that apply to the use of any public
resource within the university.
     The following conditions apply to all users of UNM systems. 
Violations of any of the conditions are considered unethical and
possibly unlawful.  UNM views the use of computer facilities as a
privilege, not a right, and seeks to protect legitimate computer
users by imposing sanctions on those who abuse the privilege. 
Eliminating computer abuse provides more computing resources for
users with legitimate computing needs.  UNM's computing  policy is
based on the laws of the State of New Mexico and United States
Copyright Law.  In addition, UNM imposes certain restrictions
which are not specifically covered by either law.   Besides 
setting guidelines for appropriate use of computers, UNM's  policy
outlines the disciplinary procedures that will be imposed on
computer users who violate the policy.  In accordance with estab-
lished University practices, violations may result in disciplinary
review which could result in expulsion from the University or
dismissal from a position, and/or legal action.  
     Computer users agree to abide by the following conditions,
which apply to all computers and network interconnections owned or
administrated by UNM including university-wide microcomputer
facilities.

Page 1
   COMPUTER USERS AGREE TO RESPECT THE INTENDED USE OF ACCOUNTS
                     ESTABLISHED FOR THEIR USE

Accounts are considered the property of the University of New
Mexico.  Authorization for the use of the accounts is given by the
Schools, Colleges, and other units of the University for specific
academic purposes.   Accounts have tangible value, as do computer
hardware, software, and storage media.  Consequently, attempts to
circumvent the accounting system, to use an account without
authorization, or to use accounts for other than their intended
purposes are all forms of attempted theft.  Attempting to defeat
the security systems of any UNM machine is forbidden.  It is
unethical to violate the rights to privacy and resources granted
others.  UNM reserves the right to lock an account from a computer
user if impropriety is determined. 

If an account does not have sufficient resources to complete
assigned work the proper action to take is to notify the course
instructor who can arrange for additional resources, if necessary. 
UNM reserves the right to terminate a computer user's session if
s/he is acting in an irresponsible or unlawful manner.  Similarly,
any process that is deemed harmful will be cancelled.  UNM also
reserves the right to cancel, restart, or hold a job or program to
improve system performance if necessary.  Game playing is not
allowed on the system during any academic semester.  At other
times the availability of games are automatically regulated and
may be played when other use is low.  

    COMPUTER USERS AGREE TO RESPECT THE INTEGRITY OF THE SYSTEM

Computer users shall not intentionally develop or use programs
which harass other computer users of the facility or infiltrate
the system and/or damage the software or hardware components of
the system.  This includes all network links.  Computer users
shall not use network links for any use other than outlined in
network guidelines (e.g., BITNET, Internet).  The accidental or
intentional discharge of any unauthorized or destructive program
is subject to prosecution by all appropriate agencies, without
protection from the University.  UNM recognizes the value of
academic game development, research on computer security, and the
investigation of self-replicating code.  Individuals researching
these topics must contact the appropriate UNM system administrator
regarding the effects of their work on the systems.

The well-being of all computer users depends on the availability
and integrity of the system.  Any defects discovered in system
accounting or system security are to be reported to the appropri-
ate system administrator so that steps can be taken to investigate
and solve the problem.  The integrity of the system is maintained
by password protection of accounts.  A computer user who has been
authorized to use an account may not disclose its password or
otherwise make the account available to others who have not been
authorized to use the account.

Use of the electronic communication facilities (such as MAIL or
PHONE, or systems with similar functions) to send fraudulent,
harassing, obscene, indecent, profane, or intimidating messages is
prohibited.  Also, the electronic communication facilities are not
to be used for the transmission of commercial or personal adver-
tisements, solicitations, promotions, destructive programs, or any
other non-university use.

                  COMPUTER USERS AGREE TO RESPECT
                THE PRIVACY OF OTHER COMPUTER USERS

Computer users shall not intentionally seek or provide information
on, obtain copies of, or modify data files, programs, or passwords
belonging to other computer users without the permission of those
other computer users and the appropriate authorization.

The systems provide mechanisms for the protection of private
information from examination by others.  Attempts to circumvent
these mechanisms in order to gain unauthorized access to private
information will be treated as actual violations of privacy and a
breach of ethical standards.  Searching through directories to
find unprotected information likewise is a violation.  Information
you have not been invited to use is not yours to access. 

Accounts are the property of the University of New Mexico and are
to be used for University purposes only (University accounts may
not be used for personal matters).  Computer users, when re-
quested, are expected to cooperate with system administrators in
any investigations of system abuse.  Failure to cooperate may be
grounds for cancellation of access privileges.  UNM recognizes
that files and mail messages are confidential.  Appropriate UNM
employees may access computer users' files during normal mainte-
nance and will report unlawful activities to the proper authori-
ties.

    COMPUTER USERS AGREE TO RESPECT THE RULES AND REGULATIONS 
           GOVERNING THE USE OF FACILITIES AND EQUIPMENT

Each UNM site has rules and regulations which govern the use of
equipment and facilities at that site.  Violation of these rules
and regulations is grounds for disciplinary action.  Each site has
operators, consultants, and/or supervisors who have been given the
responsibility to supervise the use of that site.  Computer user
cooperation with these individuals, and adherence to UNM policies
is expected at all times.  Students are encouraged to utilize CIRT
and other UNM consulting services; however obtaining program code
from CIRT or other staff when forbidden by an instructor is
prohibited.


              COMPUTER USERS AGREE TO THE PROPRIETARY
                        RIGHTS OF SOFTWARE

All software protected by copyright shall not be copied except as
specifically stipulated by the owner of the copyright.  Protected
software is not to be copied into, from, or by any UNM facility or
system, except by license.  This means that such computer and
microcomputer software may only be copied in order to create
backup copies, if so licensed.  The number of copies and distribu-
tion of the copies may not be done in such a way that the number
of simultaneous users in a department exceeds the number of
original copies purchased by that department.

