This is copied from the University of Pittsburgh's User's Guide to
Academic Computing, September 1987 (the latest handy).

                  Policy in Computer Resources

Computing and Information Systems serves a large number and variety of
users -- students, faculty, staff members and outside clients.  Every
member of the University of Pittsburgh has two basic rights regarding
computing -- privacy and a fair share of resources.  It is unethical
for any other person to violate these rights.  All users, in turn, are
expected to exercise common sense and decency with regard to the
public computing resources, thereby reflecting the spirit of community
and intellectual inquiry at the University.

Some guidelines:
- All files belong to somebody.  They should be assumed to be private
and confidential unless the owner has explicitly made them available
to others.

- Respect the privacy of other users.  Do not intentionally seek
information about, obtain copies of, or modify tapes, files, or
passwords belonging to other users unless explicitly authorized to do
so by those users.

- Computing resources should be used in a manner consistent with the
instructional and research objectives of the academic community.

- Respect the financial structure of the computing systems by not
intentionally developing or using any unauthorised mechanisms to alter
or avoid charges levied by the University for computing charges.

- Do not deliberately attempt to degrade or disrupt system performance
or to interfere with the work of others.

- Computing and Information Systems resources are community resources.
Theft, mutilation, and abuse of these resources violate the nature and
spirit of the academic environment.

- The distribution of programs and data bases is controlled by the
laws of copyright, licensing agreements, and trade secret laws.  These
should be observed.  (See below for CIS micro-computer software
copyright policy.)

                  Copyright Policy

Software documentation and disks used in the University computing labs
are licensed to the University of Pittsburgh.  Failure to return
software to the computing lab operator will be considered theft of
University property and will be dealt with accordingly.

Furthermore, with the exception of Kermit, PCWrite and WATCOM FORTRAN,
all software in the computing labs is protected by U.S. copyright
laws.  Any attempt to duplicate this software is a violation of U.S.
Title 17, the federal copyright law protecting rights of authors to
their works.  Any person found making unauthorized duplicates of
copyrighted software will be subject to prosecution.

Users may legally duplicate Kermit, PCWrite and WATCOM FORTRAM.


