                            MISUSE OF THE VAX
 
In  recent months,  a spate of cases has come to my attention of misuse of
the VAX: hacking; trivial or obscene  electronic mail; use of the printers
to  print  nonsense;  and so on.   All staff and students are  subject  to
College Rules, and the relevant Ordinance is printed below.
 
The  computer is an expensive tool to acquire,  maintain and  support  and
mischievious  activities such as those mentioned above interfere seriously
with the learning and research which we are all here to pursue.
 
It  may seem inocuous enough to send a trite electronic mail message to  a
friend;  but if several people are doing this together,  it will slow down
the  response  time  for somebody trying to  complete  a  serious  project
against  a deadline.   And the message may remain in somebody's electronic
mailbox for some time, using valuable disc space.
 
        Giving  somebody  else  a 'spare' user ID and  password  that  you
happen  to  know of enables them to misuse the system.   There  have  been
examples  where  hackers  have  got on to the system  this  way  and  then
attempted to destroy files.
 
         Printing a "picture" on the lineprinter may be entertaining,  but
if it's not part of your studies then it is wasting paper,  and adding  to
the College computer paper bill (which was #13,000 last year).
 
 
A WARNING
 
As  a  College Disciplinary Officer,  I have to consider any misuse  which
comes to my attention.  A guilty person will be subject to a penalty which
may be a reprimand,  a fine not exceeding #50,  a suspension of privileges
or any or all of these.
 
Misuse  of  electronic  mail is automatically punished  by  withdrawal  of
electronic mail privilege.
 
One or two miscreants have told me they didn't realise that what they were
doing was aginst College rules; or didn't realise the implications of what
they were doing.
 
The purpose of this message is to make it clear beyond all doubt that  ANY
USE  OF  COLLEGE  COMPUTING  EQUIPMENT  IS AGAINST  COLLEGE  RULES  IF  IT
IS  NOT  PART  OF  THE  TEACHING,   LEARNING  OR RESEARCH  THAT  YOU   ARE
HERE  TO ENGAGE  IN.
 
 
SOME ADVICE
 
-   Don't  tell anyone your password.   Change it frequently,  say once  a
    term at least.
 
-   Don't use anyone else's user ID and password, ever.
 
-   Don't encourage or help hackers.
 
-   Don't use electronic mail unless you need it for your work.
 
-   Don't  even attempt to log in to computers which you are not  entitled
    to use.
 
-   Don't  attempt to read,  copy or execute other people's files  without
    their agreement.
 
-   Don't  ever attempt to alter or delete someone else's files.
 
-   Think   twice before you print ANYTHING on the printer:  do you really
    need it for your work?
 
 
                                                   John S. Hornsby,
                                           Director, Computing Laboratory.
 
 
                    ORDINANCE  ON  COMPUTER  SECURITY
 
                 (Approved by Council on June 25th, 1988)
 
 
"It is forbidden to make unauthorised use of College computing  equipment;
to  obtain or attempt to obtain unauthorised access to data whether it  be
held  on the College computer system or on any system to which the College
system  may be connected;  or to use the College computer system  to  send
without authority data or messages to any other computer system."
