
The Story of Ronald Frump
by Dave Bealer

Ronald Frump was born on December 7, 1941.  Frump calls this an
interesting fact, although his business opponents have been known to
refer to it as prophetic.

Leaving his childhood home of Fort Scott, Kansas, at the age of
sixteen, Frump made his way west, eventually settling in Soccorro,
New Mexico.  After spending many years selling used yachts in New
Mexico, Frump tired of the fast and reckless lifestyle of Soccorro
and made for the calmer waters of Las Vegas.

In 1963 Frump landed his first job as a dealer at a small club off
the strip.  His business savvy and bloodthirsty tendencies soon saw
him safely ensconced as owner of three small clubs, The Frump Sphinx
Club in Las Vegas, the Frump Coliseum in Reno and the Frump Colossus
in South Lake Tahoe.

But Ronald Frump is a dreamer, and a man not accustomed to making do 
with what he already has.  He conceived of a huge strip hotel, larger
than any then in existence.  The result was the Frump Pyramid, two
blocks long and 50 stories high.  The Pyramid's 4,500 hotel rooms
were filled constantly with customers for the three casinos, two
nightclubs,  five restaurants and numerous shops contained on the
lower levels.

Opened in 1971 with the aid of money invested by a group of well-
heeled New Jersey olive importers, the Frump Pyramid cleared more
than $6 billion in its first five years.  With this kind of success,
it was only a matter of time before further expansion took place.

The Frump Boardwalk Pyramid in Atlantic City was opened in 1983 with
the help of new partners, a consortium of sugar importers from Miami.
The Boardwalk Pyramid's 3,800 rooms and two casinos make it the
largest casino/hotel on the east coast.

With profits of better than $2 billion a year from the two Pyramids,
Frump has been playing a real-life game of Monopoly, buying every
hotel which comes up for sale in both cities.  But why is it that
Ronald Frump is prospering when other casino operations in Nevada and
New Jersey are foundering?

Many experts attribute his success to his extra-ordinary sense of
what people will find entertaining.  For instance, one of the
mainstay attractions of both Pyramids is the "Frumpies," waitresses
clad in fuzzy pink bathrobes and slippers, their hair up in curlers.
Many guests seem to like this homey touch, and are willing to
overlook the "Frumpies" usual surliness, the extent of which has
prompted more than one observer to nickname them the "Grumpies." 

The Twerpus Maximus Room at the Frump Coliseum is one of the most
popular cabaret spots in Reno.  Retired and burned out Frumpies strut
their stuff there every evening in front of sellout crowds.

Another major innovation brought to casinos by Ronald Frump is the
"Robo-Dealer," a mechanical dealing robot built by RCU, the Robotics
Corporation of Ukraine, located in Minsk.  These wise-cracking
mechanical dealers not only save large amounts of payroll expense,
they are also able to more effectively spot players who cheat, while
themselves performing tremendous feats of automatic dexterity while
dealing.  A Robo-Dealer has begun appearing in recent Frump Casino
ads, and its early popularity has led some pundits to make the gloomy
prediction that Robo-Dealer may attain pop-culture icon status
similar to that enjoyed by Max Headroom and "Mr. Whipple."

Despite his success, Ronald Frump's life has not been without its
trials and tribulations.  He ended up spending millions outfitting
the new Boardwalk Pyramid with huge fans to blow away the fog which
would periodically obscure the fifty foot high letters proclaiming
the FRUMP name to all of south Jersey.

Copyright 1992 Dave Bealer, All Rights Reserved
------------
Dave Bealer is a thirty-something mainframe systems programmer who
works with CICS, MVS and all manner of nasty acronyms at one of the
largest heavy metal shops on the East Coast.  He shares a waterfront
townhome in Pasadena, MD. with two cats who annoy him endlessly as he
writes and electronically publishes Random Access Humor.  He can be
reached at - Internet: dave.bealer@rah.clark.net  FidoNet> 1:261/1129
