 ‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹‹
 John's Diner∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞Who Was That Guy?∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞∞by Lucia Chambers
 ﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂﬂ
     
	       Jeff Green squinted into the sun, wiped away the sweat 
      forming on his upper lip, and positioned his feet exactly
      eighteen inches apart.  He took a couple of short practice
      swings, letting the weight of the club act as a pendulum
      dangling from his hands.  Then he suddenly swung high, over, and
      cracked the golfball for a long, straight shot.
	       Michael Hahn shielded his eyes with his hand and followed 
      the ball. "Hey!  I think you got a hole in one!"
	       The two astonished men stood there for a moment, and then
      moved on.
                                  * * *
									 
	       Joe DeRouen had been floating for what seemed like
      forever, hardly able to see outside the filthy outer glass of
      his transporter vehicle.  When the golfball snapped the
      shield, the pressurized cabin exploded air outwards, forcing
      him to somersault, feet over head, and then shoot through the
      breach into the atmosphere.  His tattered robes flapped
      wildly, his feet moved back and forth and his mouth made a big
      O as he screamed through the air.  Finally, a lower tree limb
      caught his left sandal, and he wound up dangling upside down
      with his hands almost touching the grass.
	       "Here!  Here!" Michael yelled, running up to the swinging
      man, "Get the flask, Jeff, get the flask!"
           Michael and Jeff pulled Joe out of the tree; he fell to
      the ground sounding a loud thud.  Joe snatched the gleaming
      silver flask from Jeff's outstretched hand and greedily drank
      several deep swigs from it, looked straight ahead, and said,
      "Oogle jeltry et?"
           "This will never do," Michael said, scratching his head.
           "Inter treelumf." Joe sighed, drank a little more, and
      then clasped his hand over his mouth.  His eyes grew big.
           "Quistergreen." Joe reddened and tried again,
      "Quibblernog." He looked imploringly at Michael and Jeff, put
      one hand over his heart, sputtered "Inveiglebean eron yeeler
      mornit, eter quack!" and passed out cold under the tree.
           Michael snatched the flask from Joe's hand, took several
      long gulps, and handed it over to Jeff.  "Where do you think
      this guy is from?"
           "My guess is Finland.  I've heard about the technology
      there, but this!  This is amazing!"
           Together they knocked a nearly transparent glassed
      object that reflected them back like a fun-house mirror,
      walking around it, kicking, feeling for a hole. Eventually
      the two just stood there, gaping into space.
           Michael waved his head at the unconscious man.  "Check
      him for ID?"
           Jeff shrugged, then began rummaging around Joe's lapel
      for a pocket.  He pulled the robe closer, pulled out the flap,
      examined the chest, and found no pockets anywhere.  "A bum,
      Michael.  He's a bum.  No ID."
           Michael looked uncomfortable.  "Well we can't just leave
      him here, he's obviously lost."
           "Okay.  Let's put him on the cart and bring him into the
      club," He needs to be dealt with, one way or another."
      
                                  * * *
      
           Jack McGeehin turned to the customer with a big smile,
      put down a saucer and filled his cup with fragrant, steaming
      coffee.  "Anything else, Matt?"
           "No no, siree, this is all I need, all I ever wanted."
      Matthew Arnold drank deeply, then smiled at Jack over the rim
      of the cup.
           Joe pulled up a stool, pointed to the coffee, and sat
      down, a despondant frown on his face.  He muttered, "Oogle
      jeltry et?" a couple of times, but seemed to not expect an
      answer.  Jeff and Michael stood in the doorway, talking to Del
      Freeman, the owner of the Pro Shop.
           Jeff fidgeted with a tee while Michael spoke.  "You know,
      he just sort of dropped in, uninvited.  It doesn't make any
      sense to me.  Should we call a meeting or something?" Michael
      seemed so annoyed, Jeff was going to say something to him but
      decided to remain quiet for the moment.
           "Have you checked out the latest Finnish technology,"
      began Del, "I mean, they're doing all sorts of things over
      there.  Maybe this was a planned unplanned kind of thing."
           Jeff couldn't stop himself from speaking any longer.  "I
      disagree.  Why would they send him in, speaking a different
      language and all, not fitting in anywhere, lost?"
           "I don't know, really," Del snapped.  She too, looked
      annoyed and right before she turned and strode away, said,
      "You figure it out if you want.  Me, I'm just fine with this!
      You guys helped dream this up, now GO with it!"
           Jack and Matt laughed loudly for a second or two,
      reminding everyone that this was supposed to be fun, an
      adventure.  After all, they'd planned a good part of it, and
      if it were all rehersed they may as well become a bunch of
      wooden actors instead of relaxing together on this island
      fantasy!
           Jeff and Michael looked at each other, shrugged, and
      wandered out.
      
                                  * * *
					
           Joe was *not* a happy camper.  This species was
      progressed enough to play in virtual realities, and he'd been
      assured he'd be welcomed as part of *someone's* reality, even
      when the turf was a group idea.  He never for ONE MINUTE
      expected to have a language problem, and had paid good money
      to visit this planet.  He had no idea how he was going to go
      home, either, because his transporter had a big hole on the
      bottom.
           He was extremely surprised, however, when the virtual
      reality program concluded.  When he vanished into air along
      with the fantasy, only Jack and Matt remained, shaking their
      heads and chuckling.
      
                                    -end- 
                       Copyright (c) 1993 Lucia Chambers
