- - - - - - - Begin message from: NBaheti.es@Xerox.COM
Return-Path: <@SIMTEL20.ARPA:NBaheti.es@Xerox.COM>
Received: from SIMTEL20.ARPA by MARLBORO.DEC.COM with TCP; Sun 23 Mar 86 15:19:4
1-EST
Received: from Xerox.COM by SIMTEL20.ARPA with TCP; Sun 23 Mar 86 13:19:00-MST
Received: from Catawba.ms by ArpaGateway.ms ; 23 MAR 86 12:18:40 PST
From: NBaheti.es@Xerox.COM
Date: 23 Mar 86 15:18:37 EST
Subject: Crazy Users - READ THIS
To: RCPM-SYSOPS@Simtel20.ARPA,RCPMSYSOPS@Simtel20.ARPA
cc: NBaheti.es@Xerox.COM
Message-ID: <860323-121840-2300@Xerox>

The following file was uploaded to my system under the name of
BADUSER.TXT. The only thig is that the SysOps NAME isnot included
in the file anywhere. Please pass this around and beware...

--Arun Baheti
  NBaheti.es@Xerox.COM
--------------------------------------------------cut here
   Date: 27-NOV-85 and afterwards
e
     To: All Fido Sysops
Subject: Improper use of Fido and life threats


   Fellow Sysops:

     I had a user sign on and deposit a bomb. Fortunatly
it was de-fused by me prior to it going off. It is an IBM
BASICA program and will not run properly on the Rainbow
anyway.

     The user used the following alias:

              Name : Harry Blackstone
              City : New York, NY
          Password : Magic
   
     He logged on to 102/110 on 17-NOV-85 at 3:55pm. The
program he deposited is called FUTR2.BAS. It attempts to
kill all files on A, B, C, & D drives. It is poorly
written, as though by a 6th grader. It is easy to spot. It
is about 2600 bytes long. Be aware of this user's name and
password. Spread this message around. Keep a log of where
and when you've seen him and his actions.

     About one month later, on 19-DEC-85, he came back. He
saw a little note I had posted in my Free Message Area
about him and his program. He also noticed that I had
twitted him. He came back under the name of 'Blackstone
Harry'. He had info about a home I own and people that
is on file at the County Clerk's Office and free for all to
see. He said he was going to put a bullet into a relative's
head, and rape and sodimize another relative. Neither
relatives are alive today as they both passed away about 6
months ago. The house mentioned is not occupied by me but by
tennants. However the threat was REAL. The police have a
file on him. Other users have reported to me that they have
seen him. The FBI knows about and has a file on him. The
phone company knows about him. The FBI and the phone company
offered to set line traps for him. I accepted the offer.

     One week later, he left messages containing Visa and
American Express card numbers on them. These were turned
over to the authoritys. He claimed to have broken into a
VAX 8600 and was trying to 'crash' it. Good luck. The FBI
was involved because interstate crime may have been
comitted. They since suspect that he is operating out of
the Los Angeles Area or has contacts here. In exchange for
phone line trapping I have agreed to prosecute him to the
fullest extent of the law if captured. He wants to use the
name Harry Blackstone. He gets upset if he cannot use it.
Please report any contact with him to either this Fido or
preferrably the FBI. I am all for a good joke, and it is
true that no harm was done so far by his program or him.
But threats like he made (if it is a 'he') cannot be
tolerated. Passing Visa card numbers around puts our Fidos
in jepordy as well. We are to a certian degree responsible
for whats on our boards.

     A short time afterwards, he called my voice number and
posed as a beneficiary to a good cause. He wanted to come
collect a donation. The only donation he gets from me is Pb
in capsule form. It should be mentioned that he has called
at least one other local Fido here and made the same public
threat to me on that system.

     One thing this proves is that as Sysops we all have to
be careful with other's uploads. Check everything, as I do.
Sometimes a machine language program will get through so
check these extremely carefully. The program STRING.COM 
available everywhere will assist you in doing this.

     If you are on any board and see Public Messages from
him before I do, please inform me immediatly. Ignore the
messages. If he causes you trouble, do as I did and call the
police, FBI and telephone company. You will be surprised as
I was to see that these people are very helpfull. Computer
crime is easy to trace if you have a log as we do and keep
your evidence updated. I will let everyone know how this
turns out, and ignore it if he never calls again and makes
no more threats. As for now, I keep my S & W loaded and
ready for use. The police agree with this concept. I will
not hesitate to use it if he finds my newer address and
comes here. My house is overlooked by 6 others higher than
it, and all neighbors are in tune to this message.

     Good luck in catching this nerd on your system!
     P.S. Forgive the terrible spelling!

- - - - - - - End forwarded message
   --------
