         What to say to drive away hucksters who telephone
during dinner or in the middle of a riveting TV show 
peddling sides of beef, municipal bonds, alum-inum siding, 
computer software or whatever:
        
          1. "The police photographer is still here, and 
              the county medical examiner hasn't released 
              the body to the coroner yet. Can you call 
              back a little later?
        
          2. "You called at the right time, buster. I'll 
              order carloads of whatever you got just to 
              restore my credit rating. Those turkeys down 
              at the bank go bananas over one little 
              bounced check or two.
        
          3. "I'm sorry. The taxi is at the door right now.
              We're heading off on a 90 day world cruise 
              aboard the Empress of Burmuda.
        
          4. "Well, you'll have to send the stuff to my new
              address. As of next Wednesday, it'll be: care
              of the warden, maximum security wing, Attica 
              Correction Facility, Attica, N.Y.
        
          5. "What's that you say? Speak up, please, will 
              you? The battery has run down on my hearing 
              aid. Louder, please, Louder. Is that the best
              you can do? I'm afriad we're just not 
              communicating"
        
          6. "I'm afraid you have the wrong number. This is
              a funeral home or what we like to call a 
              consoling chapel for the bereaved. Visiting 
              hours are from 2 to 5 and 7 to 10.
        
          7. "I'm just house sitting here, buddy. The 
              owners won't be back for a couple months. You
              wouldn't have a good deal on off-brand 
              whiskeys and beer by the case, would you? 
              Maybe a little grass or snow?
        
          8. "Too late pal. As of tomorrow, Uncle Sam will
              take care of all my necessities. But you 
              might try my drill instructer at Camp 
              Pendleton. In other words tell it to the 
              Marines
        
          9. "I'm gonna have to put you on hold. The baby
              is due any minute now. Quick someone, get
              some hot water. Lots of it. Sorry, gotta
              hurry now, don't go away
        
         10. "Oh, it's you again. I was hoping you'd call
              back. The better business  people said I need
              more positive identification to file my
              complaint. Now first let me have your name
              and telephone number. Hello? Hello?
        
         11. "Well, if this ain't the living end. The
              furniture is out on the sidewalk the
              sheriff's auction is about to begin and you
              want to sell me a freezer full of prime beef.
              Keep talking. I can dream, can't I?
        
         12. "The number you have called is a working
              number like you would'nt believe.
              Let me make you a counterproposal. How about
              the company of one of our swinging little
              ladies for an evening? Our personalized
              dating service guarantees satisfaction, and
              we do take credit cards.
        
         13. "Sorry to cut you off like this but Uncle
              Harry is choking on something.  
              Oh, my, he's turning purple. Could you tell
              me how to administer that bear hug first aid
              grip? I'd better go.
        
         14. "The furnace just conked out, there's a foot
              of water in the basement and I nearly broke
              my neck on the kid's skate board getting to
              the phone. You wouldn't have a special on
              cyanide, would you?
        
         15. "You better talk to my wife when she gets back
              from Reno. This place will be all hers then.
        
         16. "The dog just died and I'm so glad to have
              someone to talk to...
        
         And of course, there is this old one....
 
         17. What the fuck is your problem asshole??
             What ever the fuck you are trying to
             sell or give away or whatever, I don't
             need it because if I did, I would have it,
             and if I have one already, I sure the fuck
             don't want another one from you !!!!
             Why can't leeches like you get a real job,
             why the fuck do you gotta call me?? What the
             fuck is your problem. If you call one more
             time I will come through the phone line
             and eat your tonsils!! Now go away you
             maggot and crawl back under the rock
             from which you came.
