From bigxc@prairienet.orgTue Feb  7 07:17:57 1995
Date: Thu, 26 Jan 95 07:02:36 CST
From: Brian Redman <bigxc@prairienet.org>
To: Multiple recipients of list <conspire@prairienet.org>
Subject: Murder, Bank Fraud, Drugs, and Sex


MURDER, BANK FRAUD, DRUGS, AND SEX
By Nicholas A. Guarino
[List of victims from pamphlet]
 
 
Victim #1: On September 26, 1993, Luther "Jerry" Parks enjoyed a 
nice dinner at a Mexican restaurant in Little Rock.
 
On the way home, his car was forced to a stop and he was mowed 
down by unfriendlies with nine-millimeter semiautomatic pistols.
 
The coroner pulled nine bullets from Jerry's body. I believe we 
can safely rule out suicide on this one. And it doesn't sound 
like your standard drive-by shooting, either. In fact, witnesses 
claim the hit man was a former state trooper who was very close 
to Bill Clinton.
 
Jerry was the owner of American Contract Services, which supplied 
the guards for Clinton's presidential campaign and transition 
headquarters. (Clinton still owed him $81,000.) So he knew a lot 
about Clinton's comings and goings.
 
As a matter of fact, Jerry had quietly been compiling a major 
study of Clinton's sexual affairs for about six years. Not 
quietly enough, though. Shortly before his demise, his home was 
broken into and the study's backup files -- filled with photos 
and names -- were stolen, according to his widow, Jane... after 
the security alarm was skilfully cut. Nothing else was taken.
 
His big mistake: "He threatened Clinton," Jane said, "saying he'd 
go public if he didn't get his $81,000." And then came the end. 
The *London Sunday Telegraph* quoted Jerry's son Gary, 23, 
stating the obvious: "...they had my father killed to save Bill 
Clinton's political career."
 
After a long investigation, Little Rock police detective Sergeant 
Clyde Steelman gave his character endorsement: "The Parks family 
aren't lying to you."
 
But unless you live in Arkansas, you probably never heard about 
Jerry Parks. If you lived in London (or Nairobi or Hong Kong) you 
would know more. Whitewater and other Clinton scandals are a 
*far* bigger story overseas. Many foreign observers feel the 
Whitewater coverup is the biggest one in the world in fifty or 
sixty years.
 
[...]
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #2: You must understand the central fact about the 
Whitewater Development Corporation: It was *not* the main crime.
 
Whitewater was only a pretext set up by Jim McDougal and the 
Clintons to milk millions of dollars from the SBA [Small Business 
Administration], banks, Arkansas Development Finance Authority, 
and Madison Guaranty Savings & Loan (which was later bailed out 
by us taxpayers to the tune of $65 million).
 
The Resolution Trust Corporation [RTC] people eventually figured 
out that their investigation of Madison wasn't getting anywhere 
because it was based in Kansas City, where Clinton's people 
stymied it. So Jon Parnell Walker, a Senior Investigation 
Specialist in the RTC's Washington office, began a campaign to 
get the case moved to DC.
 
Soon after, Jon was looking over a possible new apartment in 
Lincoln Towers in Arlington, Virginia, when reportedly he 
suddenly decided to climb over the balcony railing and jump.
 
Jon's friends, family, and co-workers all agree on one fact: This 
man was *not* depressed. Maybe he was just impulsive.
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #3: You remember the name Danny Ferguson. He is the 
Arkansas patrolman who once said he brought Paula Jones to Bill 
Clinton's hotel room.
 
Kathy, 38, his wife at the time, blabbed a lot about such things. 
She often told friends and co-workers about how Bill had gotten 
Danny to bring women to him and stand watch while they had sex.
 
(Altogether, Bill had hundreds of women brought to him, sometimes 
several a day. Young, pretty women pulled over for speeding or 
whatever would be offered a choice between a jail sentence or a 
trip to go see Bill.)
 
Part of Danny's job was to make sure that each woman was ready 
and willing when Bill met her. Kathy told people that Bill was 
*really* mad when Paula Jones wouldn't "put out." Bill hates to 
be refused.
 
On May 10, [1994] Kathy was found dead with a pistol in her hand. 
A suicide, the police said. Only three problems with this:
   a. Women rarely use guns to kill themselves.
   b. I can't find anyone who *ever* heard of a nurse shooting 
      herself. (Why should they? They know all the right dosages 
      for pills, and they have access to them.)
   c. I've talked to three of the six nurses who worked most 
      closely with Kathy at Baptist Memorial in Little Rock. They 
      gave me, in no uncertain terms, a loud message to convey to 
      you: "NO WAY did Kathy Ferguson kill herself." They are 
      irate.
 
Footnote to story: About three weeks later, Danny reversed his 
story, saying he didn't lead Paula to Clinton's room after all.
 
Second footnote: Bill Shelton, Kathy's new boyfriend (since her 
separation from Danny), was loudly critical of the suicide story 
and complained to many people about it. Bill was found dead on 
June 9. They're calling this a suicide, too. (Perhaps it was. I 
haven't checked it out yet.)
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #4: Vincent Foster, who was Clinton's counsel for 
Whitewater, was the highest government official to meet an 
untimely death since the Kennedys.
 
He *could* have killed himself on July 20, 1993, as Robert Fiske, 
Clinton's "independent" counsel claimed. But it's rather 
doubtful. The story line concocted by Fiske has about 20 major 
holes in it -- which partly explains his replacement by Kenneth 
Starr. A few examples:
 
   ** Official photos show the alleged suicide gun in Vince's 
  right hand. Trouble is, he was left-handed. (Of course, a hit 
  man wouldn't have known that.) Fiske ignored this in his 
  report.
 
   ** Vince went out and hired two lawyers on July 19. As 
  Clinton's man in charge of covering up Whitewater, he had 
  failed badly and could see everything was about to unravel 
  (which it began to do in Arkansas the very next day). 
  Question: Why pay for a lawyer to launch a defense and then 
  shoot yourself a day later? Fiske ignored this.
 
   ** After a somewhat hurried lunch in his office July 20, 
  Vince grabbed his jacket and left the White House with the 
  words, "I'll be back." And then we are supposed to believe, 
  apparently, that he picked up a White House beeper, drove to 
  his Georgetown townhouse, got a gun, drove to a lonely park 
  in Arlington, walked 200 yards to a steep slope, went down 
  into some thick bushes, sat down, shot himself and *then* 
  threw his glasses 13 feet away through heavy brush, and wound 
  up lying down supine and perfectly straight, legs together, 
  with arms straight down at his side, the gun *still* in his 
  hand, and trickles of blood running from his mouth in several 
  directions, including uphill. What's wrong with this picture?
 
   ** Where's the bullet? None was ever found even after a 
  massive search and excavation. Could it be that the police 
  and FBI looked in the wrong place? Sgt. George Gonzalez (the 
  first paramedic on the scene) and his boss both insisted they 
  found Foster 200 feet from the official spot. If they're 
  right, then why was the body moved?
 
   ** Where are the fingerprints on the gun? There were none!
 
   ** Where are the skull fragments? None were ever found. 
  Normally, a .38 will blow out a 4" to 5" hole, with blood and 
  brains everywhere. Because of the mess and the noise, most 
  sophisticated hit men today repack their cartridges with a 
  half charge. This explains the tiny, one-inch hole in the 
  back of Vince's head. Fiske skipped this.
 
   ** Who is the mystery blonde whose hairs were found on 
  Vince? And why did Fiske not mention that carpet fibers and 
  semen were found on his [Foster's] shorts? In this age of 
  detective movies, how could anyone think such clues unworthy 
  of mention in a serious report?
      Sadly, the real reason Fiske was sacked by that 3-judge 
  panel was not to preserve an "appearance of impartiality," as 
  the papers said. They were simply tipped off that Fiske was 
  rapidly burying everything he could. For instance, when David 
  Hale's trial judge refused to keep Bill Clinton's name 
  entirely *out* of Hale's testimony, Fiske immediately stopped 
  the trial and changed his charge from a huge felony to a 
  small misdemeanor -- with a vastly reduced sentence!
 
   ** Where's the suicide note? Vince [Foster] wrote an 
  unsigned *outline* of a resignation letter, which Clinton's 
  counsel Bernard Nussbaum kept for six days, tore into 27 
  pieces (without leaving one single fingerprint -- try that!), 
  then changed his mind and let the bright yellow pieces 
  strangely appear in Vince's briefcase, which the police and 
  FBI had already inspected and found to be empty. But this 
  "suicide note" says nothing about suicide, of course. And the 
  final letter is missing.
 
   ** Today, thanks to the drug trade, hit men have polished 
  the "staged suicide" to an exact science. If any sign of a 
  struggle remains, the killer has failed his task. The trick 
  is to persuade the victim he'll be OK if he cooperates -- and 
  then shoot suddenly. In the vile jargon of the professional 
  assassins I've had the misfortune of meeting, "Ya gotta 
  butter up a turkey before ya roast 'im." To my utter 
  amazement, neither Fiske nor the Senate investigators knew 
  anything about how hit men work today.
 
   ** I could go on and on. Fiske quoted reports -- even an 
  anonymous one -- from visitors to the park [Fort Marcy Park] 
  that day. But some witnesses also saw "a menacing-looking 
  Hispanic man" by a white van with its big door open near 
  Vince's car just before the body was found. Fiske left that 
  out.
 
   ** Instead of allowing Vince's office to be sealed after his 
  death, top Clinton staffers Bernie Nussbaum, Patsy Thomasson, 
  and Maggie Williams frantically rifled it for "national 
  security matters" (read: incriminating Whitewater documents) 
  and carted them off to Hillary's closet upstairs. In a 
  stunning show of chutzpah, they even made the park police and 
  FBI agents sit in the hallway for two hours while they did 
  it. And Nussbaum later claimed it was only ten minutes! (An 
  FBI agent disclosed to me that a file was opened for 
  *obstruction* *of* *justice*, but Bill had it closed.)
 
 
Why would anybody want a nice, gentle fellow like Vince Foster 
killed and his body dumped in a park? For some excellent reasons, 
which I detail in my book, *The Impeached President*. [CN -- 
Apparently available by writing to *The Wall Street Underground*, 
1129 East Cliff Road, Burnsville, Minnesota 55337]...
 
But the #1 reason is that Vince knew far too much and he had to 
go because he was about to crack -- and that would have ended the 
Clinton presidency right there and then.
 
Suppose, however, it *was* a suicide. Suppose Whitewater was 
becoming such a horror that suicide seemed better than facing the 
music.
 
What then?
 
Then the only logical explanation is scenario #2, as follows:
 
   ** Vince's Whitewater coverup was coming apart. Facts were 
  popping up in the press and people were talking. For 
  instance, Clinton's partner in Whitewater, Jim McDougal, had 
  gone to Little Rock attorney and 1990 Republican 
  gubernatorial candidate Sheffield Nelson and made a taped 
  statement which I have heard, saying:
 
    I could sink it [the coverup] quicker than they could lie 
    about it if I could get in a position so I wouldn't have 
    my head beaten off. And Bill knows that.
 
   ** So sensitive was Vince to criticism that he was still 
  bothered about the heat he was getting for his role in 
  Travelgate. In fact, Fiske stated that those close to Vince 
  thought that "the single greatest source of his distress was 
  the criticism he... received following the firing of seven 
  employees from the White House Travel Office." Little did 
  they know the whole story. Vince had to keep Whitewater 
  details bottled up inside -- even at home.
 
   ** On the day Vince shot himself, he received a shocking 
  phone call from an attorney at Arkansas' Rose Law Firm saying 
  that FBI Director William Sessions was about to subpoena the 
  documents of Judge David Hale. Hale was a Clinton appointee 
  who charged that Clinton forced him to give fraudulent SBA 
  loans of millions of dollars to Clinton's friends. In the 
  Senate hearings, Clinton's people denied such a call took 
  place, but I know for a definite fact that it did. And I'm 
  backed up by the Rose phone billings and Vince's phone log. 
  Also, Sen. Christopher Bond (R.-Mo.) later confirmed that the 
  call was from "an old friend" at Rose.
 
   ** About this time, Clinton fired his FBI Director -- a step 
  so desperate that no President had ever taken it.
 
   ** Vince realized that the genie was out of the bottle. He 
  had confided to his brother-in-law, former congressman Beryl 
  Anthony, that he was very worried that Congress itself was 
  about to launch a criminal probe into his affairs. (In this 
  scenario, the "suicide note" was actually the "opening 
  argument for his defense" before Congress -- a defense which 
  Vince told his wife he wrote on July 11.)
 
   ** He was sure that in such a probe, the easy-going David 
  Hale would spill the beans and drag in Gov. Tucker, Steve 
  Smith, Madison Marketing, Castle Grande, Whitewater, Vince 
  himself -- and, inevitably, Bill Clinton. He mentally added 
  up the fines and prison terms he would face for concealing 
  Bill's crimes -- many of which he had taken a supporting role 
  in. The totals were horrendous. And the thought of being a 
  central figure in America's first presidential impeachment 
  [CN -- Pres. Andrew Johnson was the first impeachment 
  trial, although he, in the end, was not actually impeached.] 
  was too much for his quiet mind to bear. He told his wife and 
  sister that he was thinking of resigning. (But he still 
  couldn't let on about the Whitewater crisis.)
 
   ** He was cracking up. Everyone around him agreed he looked 
  and sounded terrible. The Desyrel prescribed by his doctor 
  didn't help. So when the call came about Hale's subpoena, he 
  had to go home and think things over. But there, alas, he 
  could think of no way out. So he put two bullets in his 
  revolver, drove across the Potomac to the first quiet spot he 
  found, hid himself in some bushes where he could pray in 
  solitude, and pulled the trigger.
 
 
That's the most probable *suicide* scenario. Unfortunately for 
Clinton, it's almost as damning as the murder scenario.
 
Today everyone -- from Vince's family to the press to the White 
House -- professes to be baffled by Vince's death. "How on 
earth," they wonder, "could such a typical Washington flap as 
Travelgate cause Vince to be so depressed?"
 
Under either scenario, the plain answer is: It didn't.
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victims #5 & #6: Then you have the small-plane crashes, which are 
fairly easy events to stage. Hit men commonly use any of five 
quick, simple, techniques.
 
One method was used on the first two victims, C. Victor Raiser 
II, the former finance co-chairman of Clinton's presidential 
campaign, and his son, Montgomery. Their plane crashed in good 
weather near Anchorage, Alaska, on July 30, 1992. I respected 
Raiser as a man of integrity, but he was caught up in a lot of 
shenanigans of the campaign -- though he didn't like them. 
Eventually, he soured on Clinton and thus became a potential 
major leak and a big threat to Bill's presidency.
 
[CN -- A biographical note seems to be in order: The author of 
this sketch, Nicholas A. Guarino is editor of *The Wall Street 
Underground*. Among many other things, he lived for 20 years in 
Arkansas and personally knew Commander Billy Jeff, Jim Blair, 
Vince Foster, Jim McDougal, David Hale, Don Tyson, Governor 
Tucker, "and dozens more of that bunch." He uses his own 
extensive research as well as "numerous informants" to "warn 
others of the acute dangers of evil, power-hungry men in 
positions of influence." Today, he lives "in a scenic, secluded 
place as far from Arkansas as he can get."]
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #7: Herschel Friday was another member of Raiser's 
committee and a heck of a nice guy. His plane dropped out of site 
and exploded as he approached his own private landing strip in 
Arkansas in a light drizzle on March 1, 1994. Herschel was a top- 
notch pilot and his strip is better than those in most cities. (I 
know because I almost had to use it once when my own plane's 
carburetor started backfiring.)
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #8: Just two days later, Dr. Ronald Rogers, a very vocal 
dentist from Royal, Arkansas, was on his way to reveal some dirt 
on Clinton to Ambrose Evans-Pritchard, a reporter from the 
*London Sunday Telegraph*, when his twin-engine Cessna crashed 
with a full tank of gas in clear weather south of Lawton, 
Oklahoma. His pilot had just radioed that he was having trouble 
and needed to refuel in Lawton. (I'm 98% sure of the technique 
that killed both Rogers and Friday; it drops your fuel gauge to 
"empty," then cuts off your fuel when you tilt forward to land -- 
and leaves no trace of a clue for investigators.)
 
There have been six other air crash deaths of former Clinton 
intimates and advisors, but I believe they were true accidents. 
In fact, in the course of about 50 radio/TV interviews, I've 
talked with a number of people who blame every accident since the 
Titanic on Clinton. This foolishness distresses me greatly 
because it discredits the actual known murders. Yes, there are 
likely hundreds of deaths among people connected in some remote 
way to Clinton's scandals, but the probable murders are pretty 
much limited to those you see in this special report -- and even 
some of these could be accidents...
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #9: But Barry Seal's death was no accident. His story is 
so exciting that Hollywood made it into a movie (*Double- 
Crossed*), starring Dennis Hopper and Adrienne Barbeau.
 
Barry made about $50 million as a pilot and plane supplier in 
Clinton's incredibly elaborate and successful drug-running 
operation out of Mena, Arkansas.
 
Iran-Contra was conceived as a simple scheme to use the 
Ayatollah's money to send guns to the Contra freedom fighters. 
But from that humble, Ollie North beginning, it blossomed into 
the great Arkansas dream. Virtually every load of Chinese AK-47s 
(plus light machine guns, grenades, and other small ordnance) 
taken from Mena to Nicaragua was matched by a return load of dope 
and cash flown in from Columbia via Panama or the Cayman Islands 
on "black flights" that Customs officials and air traffic 
controllers were instructed to ignore.
 
According to an exhaustive, top-selling new book entitled 
*Compromised*, by Terry Reed and John Cummings (which I found 
highly accurate), pilots were bringing back and air-dropping over 
$9 million a week in cash, which was properly laundered and then 
went into Arkansas industries owned by friends of Gov. Clinton. 
(*Not* into Clinton's pockets -- he didn't usually do that kind 
of thing except to pay off campaign debts and favors.) And in 
case you're wondering why Bill needed his land scams when he had 
all that drug money available, the answer is, the drug operations 
came later.
 
Incidentally, the money was laundered through such sterling banks 
as BCCI [Bank of Credit and Commerce International]. Remember 
them? I discussed BCCI's involvement extensively with its 
Panamanian president.
 
Five or six of the CIA subcontractor pilots running the gun-drug 
loop under Barry Seal have said that Nella (near Mena) was chosen 
as the base for training Contra soldiers mainly because its 
terrain and foliage were so similar to Nicaragua. Many local 
residents still recall camouflaged Latinos holding maneuvers in 
the countryside -- but they all agree it's not healthy to talk 
about it too much.
 
Iran-Contra was an impressive operation on both ends. I still 
remember standing on the deck of a flat-deck, flat-bottom supply 
boat used to run guns upriver to the Contras in Nicaragua. It was 
loaded to the gunwhales with Russian-made rifles, machine guns, 
rocket-propelled grenades, etc., in Chinese-marked boxes. The 
captain and his partner, a German arms dealer, invited me to 
sample the merchandise, so I pried the lids off a couple of 
wooden cases, took out some AK-47s, and sprayed a few clips 
around the woods. (Very nice guns, but I wasn't in the market.)
 
In case this begins to sound like a far-right hallucination, you 
should know that some liberal groups (ever opposed to CIA tricks) 
concur. For instance, *The Wall Street Journal* said on June 29:
 
  There is even one public plea that Special Counsel Robert 
  Fiske should investigate possible links between Mena and the 
  savings-and-loan association involved in Whitewater. The plea 
  was sounded by the Arkansas Committee, a left-leaning group 
  of former University of Arkansas students who have carefully 
  tracked the Mena affair for years.
 
 
I wish them luck. And good health. The Arkansas Attorney General, 
the IRS, and the state police have been met for fifteen years 
with "a wall of obfuscation and obstruction" erected by the 
Clinton circle of power -- which is EVERYWHERE in Arkansas. 
According to *Penthouse*, which is not exactly noted for being a 
far-right magazine:
 
  He [Clinton] controlled virtually all the 2,000 handpicked 
  appointees to an array of boards and commissions that 
  effectively rule the state... Anyone seeking to do business 
  with the state -- and that included just about everybody 
  running a business -- learned to expect direct solicitations 
  by Clinton's campaign finance people.
 
 
Polk County Prosecutor Charles Black, to his credit, once even 
sat down with Clinton himself and pleaded for a state 
investigation of Mena!
 
Bill said that "he would get a man on it and get back to me," 
Black recalls. That was in 1988. Black is still sitting by his 
phone. (I'm sure Bill got a kick out of that interview. I recall 
him grinning as he made some comment about "dumb Arkies" one 
afternoon at the brokerage I owned in Harrison -- one of a dozen 
or so occasions when we spent time together.)
 
But at the risk of sounding as bad as Bill, I must remind you 
that, after all, this *is* Arkansas... where:
 
   ** One governor before Clinton had every concrete-and-steel 
  bridge in the state insured for fire (yes, fire). Guess who 
  owned the insurance company.
 
   ** Another governor, being indicted for fraud, simply canned 
  the judge and replaced him with the town drunk, who then 
  dismissed the grand jury.
 
 
So just think of Bill as a traditional, Arkansas kind of 
politician.
 
But I digress. Barry Seal was eventually arrested by the Federal 
Drug Enforcement Administration [DEA]. To get off the hook, he 
turned state's evidence and fingered several big drug dealers. He 
even managed to take clandestine photographs of major Columbian 
and Panamanian figures, one of which President Reagan showed 
proudly in a nationwide TV speech.
 
But in the end, the DEA betrayed the flamboyant Barry by allowing 
him to be sentenced to a halfway house, where a few days later he 
was a sitting duck for three Columbian avengers with Uzi and MAC- 
10 submachine guns with silencers. The ending wasn't pretty, but 
it made a hard-hitting movie.
 
Why did the DEA dump Barry? Perhaps because, as Clinton observed 
to Terry Reed, "Seal just got too damn big for his britches and 
that scum basically deserved to die, in my opinion..."
 
I'm not saying Bill ran Iran-Contra. He didn't -- not even the 
Arkansas half of it. But five men in the Mena operation (sorry, I 
can't reveal their names to you) have affirmed that he provided 
their cover as governor and "rode herd" on them through the 
Intelligence Division of the state police. Other high officials 
helped. Why? Because the Arkansas state bonds program (ADFA) 
received 10 percent of the net profits -- plus the *use* of 100 
percent of the gross in their banks as they laundered it. Quite a 
boost to the economy!
 
At least that was the deal cut with Clinton. But the Mena 
operations (code-named *Centaur Rose* and *Jade Bridge* by 
Reagan's CIA Director Wm. Casey) finally had to be yanked from 
Arkansas and moved to Mexico under the name Operation *Screw 
Worm*. Simple reason: Bill and friends just couldn't resist 
putting Arkansas' hand deeper into the till than they were 
supposed to.
 
In fact, eyewitness Reed details at length the tense meeting in 
which William P. Barr -- later President Bush's Attorney General 
-- breaks the bad news to a very angry Clinton. (Sorry, I must 
condense the conversation greatly. You've got to read his book!)
 
On a March night in 1986, they met with Reed, Oliver North, and 
two other CIA men in a musty, poorly-lit World War II ammunition 
bunker at Camp Robinson outside Little Rock.
 
After several sharp exchanges and traded insults, Barr said, "The 
deal we made was to launder our money through your bond business. 
What we didn't plan on was you... shrinking our laundry... That's 
why we're pulling the operation out of Arkansas. It's become a 
liability for us. We don't need live liabilities."
 
"What do ya' mean, live liabilities?" Clinton demanded.
 
"There's no such thing as a dead liability. It's an oxymoron, get 
it? Oh, or don't you Rhodes Scholars study things like that?" 
Barr snapped.
 
"What! Are you threatenin' us? Because if ya' are..."
 
>From that point on, Barr was able to smooth things out, and he 
concluded with the most eye-opening passage of the book:
 
  You and your state have been our greatest asset. The beauty 
  of this, as you know, is that you're a Democrat, and with our 
  ability to influence both parties, this country can get 
  beyond partisan gridlock. Mr. Casey wanted me to pass on to 
  you that unless you f*** up and do something stupid, you're 
  No. 1 on the short list for a shot at the job you've always 
  wanted [meaning the Presidency]. That's pretty heady stuff, 
  Bill. So why don't you help us keep a lid on this and we'll 
  all be promoted together.
 
  You and guys like us are the fathers of the new government. 
  Hell, we're the new covenant.
 
 
An amazing statement, wasn't it? Especially for 1986.
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victims #10 & #11: Kevin Ives and Don Henry, two Bryant, 
Arkansas, teenagers, apparently were a bit too snoopy about the 
air drops of dope and cash they had observed in the nearby 
countryside at night (part of the Mena operation).
 
They were found on the morning of August 23, 1987, having been 
run over by a train. "They fell asleep on the tracks," according 
to state medical examiner Fahmy Malak, a Clinton appointee who 
had earned the anger of the locals by pulling such stunts before.
 
(Remember when Clinton's late mother, anesthesia nurse Virginia 
Kelley, [allegedly] caused the death of two patients by neglect? 
Malak was the one who cleared her. Malak once even declared that 
a decapitated man had died of "natural causes," a ruling Clinton 
defended as a mere symptom of overwork.)
 
Malak's opinion caused a big ruckus locally. Eventually, the 
boys' irate parents managed to get a second coroner's opinion, 
and the official causes of death were changed to being stabbed in 
the back and getting a crushed skull *before* the train came. At 
this point...
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victims #12 through #17: ...six local people came forward 
independently, each claiming to have some special knowledge about 
the deaths of the boys on the track.
 
All were slain before their testimony could do any good. Police 
involvement is suspected in most cases, but not all:
 
   ** Keith Coney had been slashed in the neck and was fleeing 
  for his life when his motorcycle slammed into the back of a 
  truck. "A traffic fatality," police said.
 
   ** Gregory Collins was found shot in the face by a shotgun.
 
   ** Keith McKaskle was brutally stabbed at home -- 113 times. 
  (He knew he was doomed, and had told his friends and family 
  goodbye.)
 
   ** The burned body of Jeff Rhodes was found in the city 
  dump, shot in the head -- and with his hands, feet, and head 
  partly cut off.
 
   ** Richard Winters was killed by a man with a 12-gauge 
  sawed-off shotgun.
 
   ** Jordan Ketelson died of a shotgun blast to the head and 
  was found in the driveway of a house in Garland County. "A 
  suicide," the sheriff said.
 
 
Do you see a pattern here?
 
All in all, after ten years of Mena operations, not one arrest 
was ever made, an accomplishment that is possible only when 
someone controls the whole state like a collie controls sheep.
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #18: Danny Casolaro was a reporter who was investigating 
the connections between Mena, BCCI, Iran-Contra, Reagan's 
"October Surprise," Park-O-Meter Co. (which [allegedly] made 
dope-storage nose cones for the airplanes at Mena), and the ADFA 
(Clinton's billion-dollar state bonds racket). He affectionately 
called this network The Octopus. On August 10, 1991, just as he 
was about to receive information linking Iran-Contra to the 
Inslaw scandal, Danny was found with his wrists slit in the 
bathtub of a hotel room in West Virginia. What a coincidence.
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #19: Paul Wilcher, a Washington, D.C., lawyer, was deeply 
investigating Mena and other scandals. He was scheduled for a 
meeting with Danny Casolaro's former attorney, but on June 22, 
1993, was found dead in his apartment, sitting on his toilet. 
(The bathroom killer strikes again?)
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #20: Ed Willey, the manager of Clinton's presidential 
campaign finance committee who, according to a reliable source in 
Texas, was involved with shuffling briefcases full of cash, 
supposedly shot himself on November 30, 1993.
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Victim #21: John A. Wilson, a ruggedly honest city councilman in 
Washington, D.C., knew a lot about Clinton's dirty tricks. 
According to my sources, he was preparing to come forward and 
start talking about them. But then on May 19, 1993, he just 
decided to hang himself instead.
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
There are other possible victims, like Paula Gober, Jim Wilhite, 
Stanley Heard, Steven Dickson, Timothy Sabel, William Barkley, 
Scott Reynolds, Brian Hassey, and so on. But my evidence about 
them isn't convincing, and I refuse to join those who call every 
Clinton-related death a murder.
 
What *is* convincing is just the sheer numbers of untimely deaths 
in the Clinton circle of influence -- plus a long string of 
threats, attacks, beatings, break-ins, wiretaps, and other 
intimidation. For example:
 
   ** Dennis Patrick of Kentucky has survived three attempts on 
  his life so far -- and is now in the federal witness 
  protection program. (Hang in there, Dennis -- and never 
  forget who's in charge of that program!)
 
  He was the unwilling customer of Lasater & Company in Little 
  Rock, where tens of millions of dollars were traded (read: 
  laundered) in his account in 1985 and 1986. Only two 
  problems: He never knew what these trades were... and it 
  wasn't his money! (Coincidentally, the trading stopped when 
  Barry Seal was killed on February 19, 1986.)
 
  And that's not even the scary part of the story. The fact 
  that may make your hair stand on end is that Dan Lasater is:
       -- Bill Clinton's second-best friend
       -- a convicted cocaine dealer
       -- a noted host of lavish cocaine parties featuring very 
          young women
       -- the employer of Bill's brother
       -- and the head of Lasater & Co., which issued all $1 
          billion of Arkansas' state bonds in the '80s (but 
          only if each bond beneficiary first made a huge 
          donation to Clinton's operations or put Hillary on 
          retainer).
 
  It is also alleged that Lasater laundered hundreds of 
  millions of drug dollars through that firm. But the day after 
  Dan's release from prison only six months later, Bill 
  pardoned him! Plus, while Dan was still in detention, he gave 
  power of attorney to run the company to Patsy Thomasson, who 
  was one of Bill's top administrative aides, and Bill 
  *continued* to funnel all the state's bonds through the 
  company -- another $664 million worth!
 
  Lasater & Company was the major source of brokered deposits 
  in Madison Guaranty S&L.
 
  And Patsy is now director of the White House Office of 
  Administration. God help us all.
 
 
   ** According to a sophisticated journal called *Heterodoxy*, 
  journalist L.J. Davis spent a week nosing around some 
  sensitive areas in Arkansas last February [1994]. Then on the 
  14th, as he entered his Little Rock hotel room to dress for 
  dinner, he was knocked cold. When he awoke on the entry floor 
  four hours later, his wallet was intact, but his notebook and 
  skull weren't. And there was no furniture within falling 
  distance to account for the darning-egg-size lump over his 
  left ear.
 
  Three weeks later, he sent a draft of his story to *The New 
  Republic* BY MODEM. Three hours after that, his phone rang. A 
  rich baritone voice began, "What you're doing makes Lawrence 
  Walsh [, the investigator into Iran-Contra,] look like a rank 
  amateur."
 
  "Who *is* this?" Davis demanded.
 
  "Seems to me, you've gotten your bell rung too many times. 
  But did you hear what I just said?" (*click*)
 
  Says Davis now, "I used to laugh at things like this -- until 
  I ended up on the [expletive] floor."
 
  If all this sounds like tabloid trash to you, you're 
  absolutely right. And there's a very good reason: The people 
  behind these crimes *are* tabloid trash.
 
 
   ** Then there's the arson stuff. A nasty little blaze broke 
  out in the Little Rock offices of Peat Marwick, way up in the 
  fourteenth floor of Worthen Tower at midnight, January 24, 
  1994, just four days after Fiske's start as a Whitewater 
  investigator. It wasn't a *bad* fire, you see, just bad 
  enough to consume the area that held their 1986 audit of 
  Madison Guaranty. A former Peat Marwick executive tells me 
  that the word came down from Clinton, and they were most 
  definitely *forced* to destroy the documents.
 
  And remember the flap about the medical records that Bill 
  refused to release? Word is, all that cocaine finally 
  destroyed his nasal passages. ("Allergies," Bill says.) He 
  spent huge amounts of time flying around the country with Dan 
  Lasater in his cocaine-laden jet and went to numerous parties 
  thrown by Lasater and others, some of which featured 
  "blizzards of cocaine," according to participants.
 
  Brother Roger recently admitted doing six to eight grams a 
  day (and being a dealer for Lasater), but Bill's usage was 
  probably much less. Alas, we'll never know now. His doctor's 
  office files went up in flames. (Tsk, tsk. Those medical 
  offices. You *know* what a firetrap they are.)
 
  Speaking of drugs: Sally Perdue, a former Miss Arkansas and 
  popular talk show hostess, has told the London *Sunday 
  Telegraph* that during her 1983 affair with Gov. Clinton 
  (verified by state trooper L.D. Brown), Bill would usually 
  smoke (*and* inhale) two or three ready-made marijuana joints 
  drawn from his cigarette case in a typical evening.
 
  On one occasion he pulled out a baggie of cocaine and 
  prepared a "line" right on her table. "He had all the 
  equipment laid out like a real pro," she recalls. (A mid- 
  level Democratic Party leader warned Sally, before a witness, 
  that if she didn't keep quiet, he "couldn't guarantee what 
  might happen" to her "pretty little legs" when she went out 
  jogging.)
 
  She also told her stories to Sally Jessy Raphael, but in a 
  rare move, the producers strangely decided not to broadcast 
  the videotaped program.
 
  I've also talked with others who say they "got high with 
  Bill" *many* times -- including his personal drug supplier, 
  who is now being held in prison incommunicado in Leavenworth 
  by Janet Reno. When the time comes, they will all speak out. 
  In fact, the main problem may be half of Arkansas trying to 
  get their names in the headlines!
 
 
   ** For a change of pace, here's an incident that's non- 
  violent -- but does include the President himself.
 
  Little Rock attorney Cliff Jackson, an acquaintance of Bill's 
  from his Oxford days, was approached in July, 1993, by Larry 
  Patterson and Roger Perry, two former members of Bill's 
  Arkansas security detail. They wanted to discuss blowing the 
  whistle on his sex escapades. (Other troopers backed up their 
  stories.)
 
  As told to *New American* magazine, Jackson was discussing 
  their stories on the phone in August with another attorney, 
  Lynn Davis (not related to [L.J. Davis]), when...
 
    ...he became suspicious that the phone had been tapped. 
    He suggested to Davis that they meet in a nearby 
    restaurant. "The whole time we were there, this 
    suspicious-looking guy kept his eye on us," Jackson 
    recalls. "After we left, we were followed by this dark 
    Suburban with darkened windows and a Texas license 
    plate." Davis noted the vehicle's license plate number 
    and ran a check on it; no such license number was listed.
 
 
  You've heard of unlisted phone numbers? Welcome to the 
  phantom surveillance world of unlisted license plates!
 
  Just a few days later, the troopers received phone calls from 
  both Clinton and Buddy Young, former head of Gov. Clinton's 
  security detail. You can hear the borderline tone of Young's 
  calls in this sample from his tense call to Roger Perry, as 
  he reported it:
 
    I represent the President of the United States. Why do 
    you want to destroy him over this? ... This is not a 
    threat, but I wanted you to know that your own actions 
    could bring about dire consequences.
 
 
  Clinton's calls were no big secret, either. For instance, 
  journalist Gwen Ifill noted in the *New York Times*,
 
    It turns out that some of the calls that were overworking 
    the White House switchboard operators [in the fall of 
    '93] were going not to Capitol Hill but to Arkansas state 
    troopers [to discuss] potentially embarrassing charges 
    about his marital infidelity.
 
 
  The troopers related that Bill asked about the pending 
  allegations and offered them plush jobs. I think what he 
  wanted most was the kind of loyal silence and amnesia he gets 
  from people like Buddy Young, whom he appointed to a $93,000- 
  a-year FEMA job (not a bad promotion for a cop).
 
  Indeed, there was a lot to be silent about. In addition to 
  numerous one-night ladies, Bill had long-term affairs with 
  six. One was a real bell-ringer: The *Los Angeles Times* 
  sifted through thousands of pages of state phone bills and 
  found 59 calls to her, including eleven on July 16, 1989. On 
  one government trip, he talked to her from his hotel room 
  from 1:23 a.m. to 2:57 a.m., then was back on the phone with 
  her at 7:45 that morning.
 
  Bill's fallback defense is always that, as he claimed on 
  National Public Radio, "The only relevant questions are 
  questions of whether I abused my office, and the answer is 
  no."
 
  Well. What do *you* say?
 
 
   ** By far the unluckiest guy in Arkansas is lawyer Gary 
  Johnson, 53, who was peacefully living at Quapaw Towers in 
  Little Rock when Gennifer Flowers moved in next door to him.
 
  Now, Clinton denied on *60 Minutes* that he ever visited 
  Gennifer. But Gary had a home security system that included a 
  video camera pointed at his door. Unfortunately, it also 
  covered Gennifer's door, and after awhile he had several nice 
  visits on tape, showing Bill letting himself in with his own 
  key.
 
  Either Bill finally noticed the camera, or the grapevine told 
  Bill's aides about it, because on June 26, 1992, three weeks 
  before the Democratic nomination, Gary got a loud knock at 
  the door. It was three husky, short-haired state troopers, 
  and they slugged him as they barged in, demanding the tape.
 
  Gary promptly gave it to them, but they continued punching 
  him, breaking both his elbows, perforating his bladder, 
  rupturing his spleen so badly that doctors had to remove it, 
  beating him unconscious, and leaving him to die.
 
  Now, here's a good question for you: Do you think Bill 
  Clinton actually picked up a phone and initiated this attack?
 
  And here's a better question: *What* *difference* *does* *it* 
  *make*?
 
 
For obvious reasons of liberal loyalty, no one in the major media 
wants to stick his neck out and be the first to do a major piece 
that pins all these murders and attacks on the President of the 
United States.
 
But sooner or later, the dam will break. The weight and scope of 
the crimes are just too massive. Even if only *half* these 
incidents turn out to be accidents or true suicides, Bill will 
find it impossible to wiggle out of being implicated in the rest. 
When some indicted hit man or functionary sees the evidence 
piling up against him, he will sing like a sparrow to save his 
own tail feathers...
 
 
                   How to Make $2 Million
            Developing a God-Forsaken Tract of Land
             Without Selling One Square Foot of It
 
When the media folk told you about Whitewater, they left out a 
few amusing details.
 
So in a spirit of altruistic service and public education, I'm 
going to let you in on the secrets of how to pull off a land 
scam. Pay attention, because you've never heard this before.
 
  A. Real estate developing is more fun when you can borrow all 
     your capital without having to pay it back... or even sell 
     any land. So to get started, you need two friends: one an 
     appraiser, one a banker.
 
  B. Next, you find some dirt-cheap dirt. Anywhere in the 
     boondocks will do. In the Whitewater case, it was 230 
     acres of land along the White River for about $90,000. 
     (Some housing tract! It was fifty miles to the nearest 
     grocery store.)
 
  C. Then you get your appraiser friend to do a bloated 
     appraisal. Hey, what are friends for? Let's say he pegs it 
     at $150,000.
 
  D. You go to the bank and get the usual 80% loan. [CN -- 
     e.g., 80% of $150,000 with the land as collateral] You now 
     have $120,000, so you pay off the land [($90,000)], and 
     you still have $30,000 in your pocket. You're on a roll.
 
  E. You pay $5,000 to subdivide it and bulldoze in a few 
     roads. (Or if you know the ropes, you get the state to do 
     it, as Bill did to get a $150,000, two-mile access road.)
 
  F. Voila! You now are the proud owner of a partly-developed 
     luxury estate community. So you call up your appraiser 
     friend again, and he re-evaluates it at a cool $400,000.
 
  G. You hustle back to the bank [run by your friend McDougal] 
     and get a new 80% loan based on the new value. (Nothing 
     out of line so far. An 80% loan is standard, right?)
 
  H. You draw up plans for some fine houses (which will never 
     be built.)
 
  I. You get a new appraisal.
 
  J. You get a new loan.
 
  K. You make two or three phony homesite sales to friends. You 
     shuffle the funds around among your shell corporations and 
     bounce it back to your friends -- plus a little extra for 
     their help.
 
  L. You get a new appraisal.
 
  M. You get a new loan.
 
  N. You do a "land flip," selling the whole thing to Company X 
     for $800,000, which sells it to Company Y for a million, 
     which sells it back to you for $1.25 million. (All these 
     companies are your friends.) And yes, this kind of thing 
     *did* happen in Whitewater and Madison. In fact, 
     Whitewater figures David Hale and Dean Paul once flipped 
     Castle Grande back and forth from $200,000 to $825,000 in 
     *one* *day*!
 
  O. You get a new appraisal.
 
  P. You get a new loan.
 
  Q. Finally, your development corporation declares bankruptcy, 
     and the bank has to eat your loans because the money is 
     all gone, and since the record-keeping is so poor, nobody 
     knows where it went.
 
But weep not for the bankers. You pay them nicely -- perhaps a 
third of the $2 to $3 million you skim off. Weep for the taxpayer 
who bails out their banks.
 
Which is to say, in the case of Whitewater, weep for yourself.
 
 
            -+- Does This Actually *Work*? -+-
 
Whitewater was just the first of a series, like a pilot for a 
sitcom.
 
Using Whitewater as a prop, Bill and his partner Jim McDougal 
milked -- by my rough estimate -- several million dollars from 
the SBA [Small Business Administration] and at least five or six 
banks and S&Ls, starting with the Bank of Kingston.
 
But their later ventures, bringing in Steve Smith and now-Gov. 
Jim Guy Tucker, did even better. Campobello started with about 
$150,000 in property and squeezed over $4 million in loans from 
banks in about two years. Castle Grande began with $75,000 worth 
of swamp land and cleared over $3 million. It never built 
anything. The only human artifacts on it today are a few old 
refrigerators and mattresses.
 
Why do I have information you haven't seen before? Because my 
firm had $10 million in Madison Guaranty S&L, and I was thinking 
of buying the Bank of Kingston. (I was already worth millions by 
that time.) When I saw Kingston's financial statement, however, I 
ran like a scalded cat.
 
And Madison was worse. You didn't have to be a Philadelphia CPA 
to spot their money laundering, dead real estate liabilities 
proudly listed as assets, huge amounts of 24-hour deposits from 
brokers, and $17 million in insider loans. It was a nightmare.
 
Whitewater Development Corp. had at least an appearance of 
sincerity. It even had TV commercials, starring Jim's 
[McDougal's] striking young wife, Susan, in hot pants, riding a 
horse. Another one showed her behind the wheel of Bill's restored 
'67 Mustang.
 
But after Whitewater, the deals began dropping their frills like 
a hooker in a hurry to get things over with. The RTC criminal 
referral that Bill suppressed during his presidential campaign 
cites such later corporations as *Tucker-Smith-McDougal*, *Smith- 
Tucker-McDougal*, and *Smith-McDougal*. Catchy, eh? If it were 
me, I would have called them *Son of Whitewater*, 
*Whitewatergate*, and *Whitewater & Ponzi, L.P.*
 
 
                   -+- Short Report -+-
 
On their 1979 income tax, Hillary valued Bill's used undershorts 
-- donated to charity at the end of their action-studded tour of 
duty -- at two dollars a pair.
 
Plainly, we are dealing here with a couple that gives loving 
attention to detail in matters of deductions.
 
As you may recall, however, Clinton has proclaimed over and over 
that he simply "forgot" to deduct the $68,900 he claims he lost 
on Whitewater. Commentators have been mystified by the paradox.
 
But it's no mystery to me. The reason is obvious: Bill didn't 
deduct the $68,900 because he didn't lose a dime on Whitewater, 
and he didn't want to do time for tax fraud. Period.
 
Jim McDougal put up all the money except for $500 -- and Bill 
borrowed even *that*.
 
But weep not for Jim. Not only was he Bill's partner in 
Whitewater, but he owned Madison Guaranty S&L, which was the 
designated milk cow that provided most of the inflated loans. 
Weep instead for the taxpayers -- like you and me -- who picked 
up the $66 million tab when Madison folded.
 
 
           -+- The Paperless Office Is Pioneered -+-
                     by the Rose Law Firm
 
Will Bill and Hillary go to jail for masterminding all the land 
deals that fall under the label *Whitewater*?
 
I expect they will [CN -- Don't bet on it.] -- not because of 
existing documents, but because of the testimony of subpoenaed 
people.
 
The few remaining documents will play a supporting role, but 
frankly, friend, there aren't many left. According to grand jury 
testimony: On February 3, 1994, right after Fiske became special 
counsel for Whitewater, the nice folks at the Rose Law Firm fired 
up their high-speed Ollie-o-Matic paper shredder and ordered 
courier Jeremy Hedges to slice 'n dice his way into the history 
books by destroying twelve (12) cartons full of Whitewater 
documents. As far as anyone knows, Rose now has no more 
Whitewater records than you do.
 
Actually, a lot of the usual documents were never created in the 
first place. For instance, there was no written partnership 
agreement (don't try this at home). No transactions were written 
up, even though Clinton's real estate agent says there were 
$300,000 in sales. No deeds were ever recorded. And if any 
interest was paid on bank loans, the payment checks are missing.
 
Plus, after Whitewater, Bill got very smart and kept his name 
completely out of every subsequent deal he cut. But the 
Whitewater monies, probably several million, ricocheted from 
shell company to shell company like the basketball in a Harlem 
Globetrotters warmup drill, and every dollar wound up in the 
proper pocket. Beneficiaries included many of the biggest names 
in Arkansas -- like Gov. Tucker, Seth Ward, and some very 
powerful executives from outfits like Wal-Mart and Tyson's 
Chicken -- Clinton campaign backers all. (Campaign records for 
1982 and 1984, the two most suspicious years, have also been 
studiously shredded.)
 
And Bill, who entered public office with nothing but debts, and 
who never made over $35,000 a year as governor, is now worth 
about four to five million. A real rags-to-riches, American 
success story, isn't it? Kind of puts a lump in your throat.
 
But there's one other reason for Bill's success. In a word, 
Hillary. Prepare to be shocked as you learn...
 
 
          -+- Why the Feds Settled for $1 Million -+-
                   on $60 Million in Debts
 
You'll find this one hard to believe, so read carefully.
 
  ITEM: When Madison Guaranty folded, it was somewhere between 
  $47 and $68 million in the hole. The tab has settled at $65 
  million.
 
  ITEM: One of the biggest defaults was $600,000 in loans to 
  one of Madison's own directors, Seth Ward, who is the father- 
  in-law of Webb Hubbell. Webb happened to be Hillary's law 
  partner and until April [1994] was the No. 3 man at the 
  Justice Department -- and assigned to investigate Whitewater!
 
  ITEM: When the RTC cleanup crew took over Madison, Hillary 
  had been on retainer to Madison [Guaranty S&L] for many 
  months.
 
 
Got it so far? O.K. Now, the RTC lawsuit sought $60 million from 
Madison Guaranty's debtors. But here's what happened:
 
  1. Hillary negotiated the RTC down *from* *$60* *million* 
     *to* *$1* *million*. What a talker!
 
  2. Hillary then got the RTC to forgive the $600,000 debt Seth 
     Ward owed the RTC -- every penny of it -- thus leaving the 
     RTC with $400,000 [out of the $60 million owed.]
 
  3. But wait! Hillary did these two deeds *as* *the* *counsel* 
     *for* *the* *RTC*, not Madison. Incredible as it sounds to 
     those of us who have to live in the real world, Hillary 
     got herself hired by the RTC, and in *that* position, from 
     the GOVERNMENT side, she talked them down to $1 million.
 
  4. Her fee for the RTC job was (pure coincidence) $400,000. 
     Which left the government with $400,000 minus $400,000... 
     or in technical accounting terms, zippo.
 
  5. And who do you suppose was the mastermind who conned the 
     RTC into hiring Madison Guaranty's own Hillary to 
     prosecute Madison Guaranty? None other than the late Vince 
     Foster! When he made his pitch to the RTC, he neglected to 
     tell them about Hillary's retainer with Madison Guaranty. 
     In fact, he even wrote them a letter stating that the Rose 
     Law Firm didn't represent thrifts!
 
 
Vince and Hillary were, by the way, very, uh, close. Not only 
were they partners at Rose, but there's no shortage of people who 
saw them hugging and smooching in public. Arkansas troopers say 
that when Bill took a trip on state business, Vince was often at 
the mansion gates within minutes -- and would stay till the wee 
hours. They also spent a few weekends together at the Rose 
vacation cabin in the mountains. And when Hillary filed for 
divorce from Bill in 1986, Vince was right there at her side. 
(She withdrew the suit [later on].)
 
 
                -+- 178 Years in Club Fed -+-
 
Nobody ever accused Bill Clinton of being stupid.
 
As proof, look at the Congressional hearings. What a hoot! Bill 
had them stacked so that fully 99% of all Whitewater crimes were 
off limits!
 
This left our dignified Congressmen sternly chasing the remaining 
1% of petty misdemeanors with hardly a mention of fourteen years 
of felonies: shell games, killings, break-ins, coverups, threats, 
bribes, thefts, check kiting, payoffs, arson, money laundering, 
fraud, influence of testimony, tampering with witnesses, you name 
it...
 
And Bill managed to focus 100% of the attention on [Roger] Altman, 
[Bernard] Nussbaum, [Lloyd] Cutler and others, with none of it on 
himself. You have to admit, that's pretty smart maneuvering.
 
In February, *The American Spectator* added up two pages of 
Bill's alleged crimes, and the total potential penalties came to 
$2.5 million in fines and 178 years in prison. And *they* just 
listed the piddly stuff, like tax fraud and soliciting bribes; 
they didn't even mention the heavier incidents I listed above! 
(They did include a short roster of Hillary's much lighter 
penalties, totaling only $1.2 million and 47 years.)
 
Is such punishment excessive? I think not. Even if you ignore the 
mayhem, the Clinton economic damage has been severe. Counting 
Clinton's Arkansas Development Finance Authority, which never 
awarded a bond grant without a major campaign contribution and 
Bill's signature, he sucked over a billion dollars from state and 
federal taxpayers.
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Please forgive me for sounding dramatic, but this is a dark day 
for the republic.
 
I apologize for giving you such an avalanche of appalling news. 
God knows, I've tried to keep my tone somewhat light, but I 
realize that you are probably still alarmed.
 
Unfortunately, I must now go on to tell you about the impact all 
this is going to have on your own financial future, and that 
could be the worst news of all -- by far.
 
But unlike all the depressing matters you've just read, there is 
a bright silver lining to it. Yes, I do think it's the darkest 
day for the republic since World War II. [CN -- Guarino goes on 
from here to state that "the troubles ahead" will ironically give 
you a great opportunity to improve your finances. He tells the 
reader to open "the enclosed envelope" which I, unfortunately, do 
not have because I received this pamphlet from someone else.]
 
 .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .
 
Footnote: I [Nicholas A. Guarino] serve notice that I am not 
depressed in the least, and that if anything happens to me, I 
publicly accuse Bill Clinton and his circle of power.
 
 +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +  +
 
CN -- There ends Mr. Guarino's narrative. For the record, I also 
"serve notice" that I am looking forward to the denouement of the 
Clinton mysteries and therefore if anything happens to me I would 
miss the final curtain -- a circumstance I would much regret. 

 Brian Francis Redman    bigxc@prairienet.org    "The Big C"
--------------------------------------------------------------
    Coming to you from Illinois -- "The Land of Skolnick"        
--------------------------------------------------------------

