From henry@cerberus.bhpese.oz.au  Sun Dec 12 01:28:05 1993
X-VM-v5-Data: ([nil nil nil nil nil nil nil nil nil]
	["82423" "Sun" "12" "December" "1993" "18:26:42" "+1100" "henry@cerberus.bhpese.oz.au" "henry@cerberus.bhpese.oz.au" nil "1629" "Story - A Cruel Universe" "^From:" nil nil "12"])
Return-Path:  <henry@cerberus.bhpese.oz.au>
Received: from merlin.resmel.bhp.com.au by depot.cis.ksu.edu SMTP (8.6.4) 
		id BAA19457; Sun, 12 Dec 1993 01:27:18 -0600
Received: from cerberus.bhpese.oz.au by merlin.resmel.bhp.com.au with SMTP id AA04022
  (5.65c/IDA-1.4.4 for <jfy@cis.ksu.edu>); Sun, 12 Dec 1993 18:26:42 +1100
Received: from localhost by cerberus.bhpese.oz.au
	id AA10122; Sun, 12 Dec 1993 18:26:42 +1100; sendmail 5.67a/Sm3.8RMPSU
	(from henry@cerberus.bhpese.oz.au for jfy@cis.ksu.edu)
Message-Id: <199312120726.AA10122@cerberus.bhpese.oz.au>
From: henry@cerberus.bhpese.oz.au
To: jfy@cis.ksu.edu
Subject: Story - A Cruel Universe
Date: Sun, 12 Dec 1993 18:26:42 +1100


			   STAR TREK:  THE NEXT GENERATION
			   

					  _

				  A CRUEL UNIVERSE 
					  _

By Tanya Dean - copyright 1993



THE ENTERPRISE JOLTED VIOLENTLY.
Captain Jean-Luc Picard, desperately clutched onto the armrests of his chair
and struggled to remain seated.
 "An attack?" suggested Worf, the Klingon Security Chief.
 "Negative" said Data checking the Ops console. " Sensors detect an energy
 disturbance in Engineering. Calculated danger level high."
Captain Picard hit his communicator.
 "Mr. La Forge .... What happened? ..... Geordi, are you all right?
 Geordi? .... Geordi?!"
There was no reply.
 "Quickly, Data. Go to Engineering. Do you think you'll need any help?" 
Data stood up.
 "Perhaps, sir, depending on how great the danger is."
 "Go with Lieutenant Commander Talon, and be careful, both of you."
 "Aye, sir."
They ran into the turbolift.
 "Engineering," and the doors hissed shut.

The smoke in Engineering was thick. Thick enough to cut through with a phaser
beam. Data managed to get a glimpse of Geordi through the smoke, lying on the
floor, the VISOR knocked from his head. He ran to his friend, knelt down
beside him and turned him over.
 "Geordi?" he whispered.
 "Is he all right?" asked Talon, concerned.
 "It would appear so. I detect no internal or external damage. He is
 unconscious and should recover soon. "
Data then caught a glimpse of Ensign Davies and Gomez through the smoke.
 "Please take Chief Engineer La Forge to sickbay."
 "Aye, sir."
Sonja Gomez knelt down to Geordi and helped Davies pick him up. They did as
Data ordered. 
Data stood up and walked further into the smoke with Commander Talon. The
Enterprise shook violently again and there was an explosion in the
Engineering Hull. Talon was thrown against the wall. Data leapt to her and
helped her up.
 "Are you all right?" he inquired, concerned.
 "Yeah" she replied, dusting herself off. "I'm just a little bruised, that's
 all. "
 "Be careful, and stand behind me for protection. We have to locate the
 source of the disturbance before it is too late. "
A computer terminal exploded, sending sparks flying in all directions. Data
waited until he calculated it would be safe to proceed. Captain Picard's
voice sounded over his combadge.
 "Data, have you located the source of ..."
 "Not as yet, Captain. The smoke emissions are substantially thick, but
 judging from the force of the explosions, I believe we are getting closer."
 "Maintain an open frequency, Mr. Data."
 "Aye, sir."

The bridge shook forcefully. Counsellor Troi was thrown from her chair.
Captain Picard gave her a hand up. The lighting then began to flicker.
 "Picard to Data. Are you any closer?"
Another vigorous jolt threw the captain onto the floor.

 "Captain! ...." came Data's voice, with extreme urgency, "the disturbance
 has been located in the antimatter containment tanks! If it cannot be sealed
 off, the antimatter core must be emergency-dumped, otherwise the Enterprise
 will be destroyed."
 "Copy, Commander. Do what you have to - and hurry ..."

Back in Engineering, Data and Commander Talon had made their way to the
antimatter containment tanks. Data saw the cause of the problem.
 "The fissure is large, Captain, but I believe I can seal it off, with a
 little ...."
 "Data - Don't yap, just do it."
 "Yes, sir."
Data began to weld the split closed. A fierce explosion blew out of the
containment tank. Data was standing directly in front of it, took the full
brunt of the explosion and was thrown back a few meters.
 "Data!" yelled Commander Talon.
 "Data!" came Jean-Luc's urgent voice, "what happened?!"
Commander Talon looked around and pushed her communicator.
 "Captain, this is Lieutenant Commander Talon. Data was welding the crack and
 was knocked unconscious by an explosion. I can continue."
 "Hurry."
She completed welding the fissure, then an explosion struck her. Her reddish
brown hair caught fire. Commander Talon instantly slapped the fames out. She
was hurt, but attended to Data, who had just regained consciousness.
 "Everything's under control, Captain," she reported.
 "Thank you, Lieutenant. You and Data may return to the bridge."
Data began to stand. He saw Talon was hurt. Her leg was bleeding heavily,
due to a large, deep incision at the rear of her thigh. It took and effort
to stand up.
 "I shall escort you to sickbay" offered Data.
Talon smiled. "Thanks."  She tried to hide the pain in her voice, but it was
not hidden from Data. He tapped his  communicator.
 "Captain, reporting to sickbay. Lieutenant Commander Talon has been wounded."
 " Badly? "
 "Negative, sir. The wound looks painful, but there appears to be no
 permanent damage."
 "Report to the bridge as soon as possible."
 "Acknowledged, Captain."
Data then gently picked up the Commander.
 "Hey ...."
 "Am I holding you too tightly?"
She smiled and shook her head. Data carried her into the turbolift.
 "Sickbay."

He arrived at the required destination and laid her on the biobed, just as
Geordi was leaving.
 "Data .... is everything ...."
Data gave his friend a short nod.
 "Everything is under control, Geordi. Are you all right?"
 "Yeah, Data, I'm fine. Thanks."
Data smiled at him. La Forge then left for his post .
Doctor Beverly Crusher walked toward Commander Lucia Talon, medical tricorder
in hand.
 "Is it very painful?"
 "A little" winced Lucia. "It's hurting more .... owww .... I think
 something's stuck in there ...."
 "Doctor Crusher, I believe I can help."
Beverly looked up at Data.
 " Be careful. "
Data gave her a nod.
 " Yes, Doctor. I know exactly what I am doing. I have done this before. "
Data took a piece of synthetic material and wiped away the blood. Lucia's leg
was continuing to bleed quite heavily. The android then placed his hands on
the back of her leg. Lucia had expected the hands of a machine to be rough,
hard and cold, but Data's were quite the opposite. Data saw what was stuck
inside her leg. A small piece of metal. He slowly began to pull it out. Lucia
winced, expecting the operation to be extremely painful, but the android's
gentle touch surprised her. She felt no pain, other than what she had felt
before the operation. Data placed the metal splinter down on the ledge.
 "The operation has been completed successfully, Doctor," he informed. He
 then looked down at Lucia, on the biobed. "Are you feeling all right,
 Commander?"
 "Yes, Data. Thank you, and thank you too, Doctor."
Beverly smiled. She then sealed Commander Talon's wound. Data helped her off
the bed and returned with her to the Main Bridge.

 "Is everything under control, Data?" was the captain's first question.
 "Affirmative, sir" replied the Second Officer. "The situation in Engineering
 has returned to normal. The antimatter is contained and Lieutenant Commander
 Talon is fine."
Picard tapped his communicator. "Geordi, is everything all right down there?"
Geordi looked around, then touched his communicator.
 "Yes, sir. Everything's fine. It's like nothing happened."
 "Have you any idea what caused the ...."
 "No, Captain. Sensors detect nothing at all. I've scanned for just about
 everything. I'll keep you posted. La Forge out."

As Lieutenant Commander Lucia Talon walked towards the helm, Captain Jean-Luc
Picard noticed her short black miniskirt, which rose well above her knees. As
she leaned over to the console, her skirt lifted further. The sight of her
slender, shapely legs caught more of Picard's attention - made him raise an
eyebrow.
Worf too found it hard to look away. He managed to pull his eyes back to
tactical with some effort. Commander William Riker tried to focus his
attention on the viewscreen, but failed miserably. He could not keep his eyes
off her. If it wasn't for a quick snappy gesture from Picard's hand, Riker
would have fallen out of his chair.
Data, confused at what the fuss was about, looked with curiosity at Commander
Talon's legs. Becoming frustrated when he couldn't figure it out, he turned
back to the Ops console. Lucia, unaware of the commotion she was causing, sat
down at Conn. She then looked over at Data and smiled. Data wanted to ask her
what was so special about her legs, but decided against it and smiled
politely back at her. He then turned back to his console. 

 "Captain," came Worf's booming voice, "StarFleet Command is hailing us."
Jean-Luc frowned.
 "Open hailing frequencies, Mr. Worf."
 "Frequencies open, sir."
Captain Picard stood up and walked toward the viewscreen.
 "On main viewer."
Admiral Elita Onel appeared on the viewscreen.
 "Greetings, Enterprise," she said. "StarFleet has an urgent rescue mission
 for you. We have checked and confirmed that you are the closest Federation
 starship to a derelict vessel in which positive life signs have been
 confirmed. We are not exactly sure what type of vessel it is, but we believe
 it may be Federation. The vessel has been located in the Neutral Zone."
Picard tensed. "Admiral," he began, "have you any idea of the difficulties
that mission would cause?"
 "StarFleet is aware of the difficulties and dangers involved in this
 mission, Captain Picard. There may be many people on that ship that need
 you. You have your orders, but proceed with extreme caution."
 "We'll do our best, Admiral."
 "I know you will, Jean-Luc. I know the Enterprise will not let us down. 
 Onel out."
The viewscreen went blank.
 "Wonderful ...." muttered Riker 
Captain Picard eyed the crew and rubbed his chin. "Mmmm... we have a
problem ...."
 "Entering the Neutral Zone will appear provocative, Captain," warned his
 First Officer. "The Romulans ....." 
 "I'm aware of the danger, Number One, but if we do not enter, the people in
 that vessel will most certainly die." 
 "I realize the importance of this mission, Captain," said Worf, "but we are
 taking a substantial risk."
 "I know, Lieutenant, but the Admiral has a point - There may be people on
 that ship who need our help. Who knows how many? And we will also be taking
 a risk if we disobey StarFleet."
 "Captain," cautioned Worf, "it may also be a Romulan trap." 
 "We cannot automatically assume the Romulans are involved, Lieutenant. Set
 co-ordinates for the Neutral Zone."
Captain Picard then tapped his communicator. "Engineering, we need Maximum
Warp for as long we can hold."
 "Aye, sir," came Geordi's voice. "Maximum Warp."
 "Data," said the Captain, turning to Ops, "travelling at Maximum Warp,
 exactly when will we reach the derelict?"
 "Forty-eight hours, twenty-two minutes, and fifty-thr..."
 "Thank you, Mr. Data. That was exact enough."
 "Of course, Captain, the time will vary as the derelict continues to drift
 further away or toward us. I cannot be certain in which direction it is
 drifting."
 "By how much will the time vary, Data?"
 "Approximately four to seven seconds, sir."
Jean-Luc sighed. "Thank you .... thank you, Data ...."

As the Enterprise soared into Maximum Warp, Captain Picard addressed his
third in command.
 "Data, brief Lieutenant Commander Talon on our previous encounters with the
 Romulans."
 "Yes, Captain."
Data pushed the rotating Ops console away from him turned towards Commander
Talon and began.

 "... and then ...."
 "Data ..." interrupted Captain Picard, tediously, "- I said brief."
Data turned to him. "Yes, I .... I know, Captain. I apologize."  He pulled
back to Ops. He knew he got carried away sometimes ...
Lucia had taken everything in quite well. She was a quick learner, well she
had to be to be helmsman of the Enterprise. She had listened to Data well and
made notes in her head of what he had said. Lucia was puzzled at how an
android's voice could sound so calm and gentle. Frankly, when Captain Picard
called Data off, she wanted him to go on. She then discreetly glanced over at
him.
 Hmmm .... Quite good looking for an android ..... In fact .... very good
 looking ....
 "Lieutenant Commander Talon," said the captain, "come to my Ready Room. "
Lucia looked around.  "Yes, sir."
She stood up and followed him. The doors hissed shut behind them.
 "Sit down" offered Jean-Luc.
He waited for Lucia to be seated, then said, "this is not the best of
circumstances, Commander. You are our newest bridge crewman. Do you feel
confident with this situation?"
 "Captain," began Commander Talon, her tone serious, "I realise the danger
 and risk involved in this mission. I don't mean to sound modest, but I am
 the helmsman of the Enterprise, because I was the best in the Academy. I
 joined StarFleet for a challenging career. I know the risks that come with
 the StarFleet Uniform. I am confident, sir and I will do my best to serve
 you, the Enterprise and StarFleet, always."
Captain Picard nodded.
 "Thank you, Commander. Dismissed."


	Captain's Log, Stardate 46209.4:
	A derelict vessel has been located in the Neutral Zone. StarFleet
	Command has informed us that they have detected life forms aboard it
	and since the Enterprise is the closest Federation vessel, have
	ordered us to rescue all survivors. It is an extremely dangerous and
	risky mission, but I agree it must be done. I have taken into account
	that we may be heading straight into a trap. We are proceeding with
	extreme caution.


Lieutenant Commander Talon was off duty, and was walking down one of the
Enterprise's many corridors. She had never been on a starship as large as the
Enterprise before and was amazed at her size and technology. Lucia turned
around and looked back at where she had been. She then began to walk
backwards. Unaware of who or what was in front of her, she turned around and
bumped smack into Lieutenant Commander Data.
 "Oh .... sorry .... excuse me ..... I didn't see you ....."
The android was puzzled.
 "I realize the fact that you did not see me," he said, "but may I inquire as
 to why you were walking backwards?"
Lucia smiled.
 "This ship ...." she said. "She's amazing .... massive. No matter where you
 turn, she never seems to come to an end."
 "The Enterprise is a large starship" confirmed Data, "but everything comes
 to an end. I am off duty, Commander Talon. If you desire, I would be willing
 to show you around."
 "That'd be wonderful, Data. Thank you, but are you sure you won't get lost?"
 Data nodded. "It is understandable to assume that one could get lost on the
 Enterprise, but I being an android, I have the entire lay out of the ship
 stored in my memory."
 "I keep on forgetting that you're an android. You seem so .... human."
Data smiled. The smile then faded away.
 "You are not angry or disappointed in the fact that I am not human?"
 "No. I don't have any prejudice against you, Data. Some of the nicest people
 you meet aren't human. I have to admit, sometimes I wish I was an android as
 well."
 "Being an android has many advantages," pointed out Data, "but I would
 gladly give them all up to be human."
Lucia smiled.
 "It'd be nice if we could swap bodies."
Data had a puzzled look on his face as he looked up and down her body. "That
is not possible" he concluded.
 "I know, I know, but I wish it were."
Data nodded.
There was a short pause.
 "Now" said Commander Talon, suddenly, "how about showing me around?"
Data gave a nod.  "Certainly."
He began showing her various aspects of the Enterprise, being very careful
not to bore the Commander with explicit detail.

Hours later ...
 "Thanks, Data. I feel as if I know my way around this ship backwards."
 "I would not recommend that, Commander," advised Data. "You may know your
 way around the Enterprise backwards, but you do not know who is in front of
 you. You may bump into someone - again."
Lucia laughed.
 "You're really something ...." she complimented. "And please, call me Lucia."
 "Thank you, Lucia," Data said automatically, not entirely sure what he was
 thanking her for.
Data stopped in front of a door in the corridor.
 "What's in there?" asked Lucia.
 "This is my personal quarters" replied Data, walking inside as the door
 hissed open. "You may come inside, if you desire."
 "Thank, you, Data."
Lucia followed him in. Data was puzzled at the slight excitement he detected
in her voice, but he decided not to say anything more. Lucia then looked
around. Data's quarters were quite spacious. Something bright then caught her
attention.
 "What's this?" she asked.
 "One of my paintings" answered Data.
 "It's beautiful .... You painted it yourself?"
Data nodded. "Of course I had to be taught how to paint. Geordi, my best
friend taught me, but all my work is original."
Lucia turned to another of Data's paintings. "What is this one?"
 "It is not yet completed. It does not appear to be a painting of anything in
 particular, but much human art falls into the same category. I have been
 studying many ancient painters, the most interesting being, Da Vinci, Van
 Gogh, Michelangelo, Picasso, Pro Hart..."
 "Pro Hart?" inquired Lucia.
 "A twentieth century Australian painter. I find his work most interesting.
 Perhaps also the most unusual."
Captain Picard's voice sounded over Lucia's communicator.
 "Lieutenant Commander Talon, please report to the bridge."
She tapped her insignia.  "On my way, Captain."
She took another look at the android's painting, then started to leave.
 "I'll see you later, Data."
Lucia left for the bridge. Data turned to his unfinished painting and began
to work on it.

Later, Lucia returned to Data's quarters and sounded the door buzzer.
 "Come in" said Data, continuing to paint.
Lucia entered. Data put his paints down on the ledge.
 "Data," she began, "I've got a surprise for you."
Lucia produced a wrapped parcel from behind her back.
 "A gift?" said Data, confused, "I thank you, but why? It is no special
 occasion."
 "I know, but just open it."
Data took the parcel from Lucia and ripped the wrapping off, as Wesley had
once told him he was supposed to do, but being careful not to damage what was
inside.
 "It is a tapestry" he said, examining it.
Lucia nodded.
 "I got it for you to do. You seem to like art so much, you'll enjoy it. Do
 you know how ..."
 "Affirmative. I have observed humans sewing. Thank you, Lucia."
 "Don't mention it. By the way, how long do you think it'll take you?"
Data glanced at the tapestry.
 "It contains three hundred and ninety-two lines, each containing two hundred
 and fourteen stitches .... I would estimate - nine minutes and twenty
 seconds."
 "What?! These usually take weeks .... months ..... Oh yeah.... I forgot,
 androids can work faster than humans."
 "That is correct, Lucia, but even though I could finish in under ten
 minutes, I would like to do it slowly, as if I were human."
Lucia smiled. "That's lovely, Data."
Data then hesitated. "Lucia," he said, "I have to report to Engineering to
assist Geordi in increasing shield efficiency. We are going to need it if
things turn ugly with the Romulans."
Lucia nodded. "I agree."
Data put the tapestry down. "I will start this later. Sorry. I have to go.
Duty calls."
 "It's okay, Data. I know the feeling."
Data frowned a little, puzzled, but decided not to say anything. They then
both left his quarters.

The Enterprise without warning, rocked violently.
 "Captain!" came the chief engineer's urgent voice, "it's happening again!"
Jean-Luc was preoccupied with wrestling the armrests of his chair, to remain
seated.
 "Copy, Geordi. Do everything you can to keep .... whatever it is away from
 the antimatter containment tanks."
 "Aye, sir, but that's not gonna be easy."
 "Do you need any extra hands down there?"
 "If we can't rectify the damage no amount of extra people will help. We're
 doing the best we can. I'll keep you posted. La Forge out."
 "Geordi," said Data, glancing at him, "perhaps if we can locate the source
 of the disturbance, you may be able to counter its effects. I would
 hypothesize that the near disaster which struck the Enterprise before was
 caused by the same ..."
 "Gotcha, Data."

The Enterprise continued to shake vigorously.
 "Captain," came Geordi's voice, "I've scanned for everything and anything.
 The only thing I've been able to detect is very faint. It seems to be a
 strange energy of some sort. "
 "Theorize."
 "I'm not sure, sir. It appears to be constantly changing. It isn't anything
 we're familiar with. I can't even make it our with the VISOR. We've managed
 to keep it away from the antimatter, for now. Things should quieten down,
 but I'm not sure how long the peace can be maintained."
 "Geordi, run a further analysis on the energy and try to find its source.
 Keep me posted."
 "Aye, sir."

A few moments later ...
Data instantly tapped his insignia.
 "Captain," he reported, with some element of surprise, "it appears that the
 source of this strange energy is emanating from within the Neutral Zone .... "
Captain Picard's eyes widened.
 "Are you sure, Data?"
 "I have checked three times and confirmed, sir."
 "Captain, it has to be the Romulans" accused Worf, anger burning inside him.
 "They are trying to destroy us."
 "There is not enough evidence to make such an accusation, Lieutenant. The
 alien energy has never been encountered by the Enterprise or any other
 Federation vessel, so it probably has never been encountered by the Romulans
 either."
Worf agreed, reluctantly.

One hour later, Lieutenant Commander Talon was in her quarters, frustrated
and confused, pacing back and forth, back and forth. The door buzzer sounded.
Lucia did not want to be bothered.
 "Come in" she said, a little harsher than she had intended.
Then her anger vanished.
 "What are you doing?" Data asked, puzzled, as he walked into her quarters.
 "I'm worried Data .... I'm off duty and I can't think straight. This Romulan
 situation's really getting to me. What makes me even more angry, is there's
 nothing I can do about it." 
 "Come with me" said Data, offering her his hand.
 "Where are we going?"
 "Holodeck Two. You need to relax, then you will operate with higher
 efficiency."
Lucia smiled.  "Thanks, Data."

They arrived at the entrance to Holodeck Two.
 "Have you ever been to the holodeck?" Data asked.
 "No, I haven't."
 "What setting is to your liking?"
Lucia then giggled, her cat-like eyes sparkling. "Um .... something
romantic ...."
Data hesitated and turned to her. "I am afraid my experience in romance is
somewhat ... limited...."
Lucia looked sympathetic. She then turned to the computer.
 "Computer," she said, "program a moonlit seaside on a crisp clear night."
There was a moments pause. "Program complete. You may enter when ready."
The holodeck doors slid apart, revealing the program specified. Data and
Lucia stepped inside and the doors closed behind them.
 "Oh Data ..... I never imagined it could look so real ...."
Lucia gazed into the purple sky, which deepened toward the horizon.
 "It's .... it's wonderful ...."
 "The holodeck is always extremely accurate in simulating real situations."
An ocean wave broke on the shore. Lucia ran to the rim of the water and
touched the next incoming wave. She jumped back as it touched her feet. She
then fell backwards, and Data caught her.
 "I still can't believe how real this all is ...."
She and Data began to walk along the sand.
 "Forgive me," started Data, pausing and putting his right hand into the
 left, "but I do not understand how a moonlit seaside scenario is considered
 to be .... romantic."
 "Data, it's romantic because it's peaceful, calm and beautiful. The way the
 moonlight sparkles on the ocean .... the dim light, the quietness,
 stillness ... That's why people have candle lit dinners ...."
Data stopped walking. I remember he thought, the candle lit dinner with Jenna
D'sora. I failed then, and it is going to happen again. I do not want to hurt
Lucia as I did Jenna. Perhaps I will come to an understanding of romance, but
I will never truly feel it?
When Data dragged himself back to the present moment, he noticed Lucia's
light green eyes were staring into his.
 "Hey ...." she said, "you with me?"
In the past, Data would have been puzzled and said `I have been here all
along,' but he had come a long way since then.
 "I was just .... thinking about something ....."
 "It's all right, Data. What were you thinking about?"
 "I would rather not discuss it .... I ...."
 "I understand. You don't have to. Everyone has private thoughts they don't
 want to talk about."
 "Lucia ...." said Data, quickly changing the subject, "I can never
 physically be human, but being with humans for so long, I have learnt so
 much about them. I understand many aspects that I did not in the past, but
 there is so much I do not understand .... You seem very understanding,
 Lucia .... could you...."
Data hesitated. Lucia gazed into his innocent golden eyes.
 "Help you to become more human?"
He slowly nodded. "Please" he said, quietly.
 "Sure, Data. It'll be my pleasure."
 "Thank you" he whispered, sincerely.
Lucia then sneezed.
 "Ah ..... That is one thing which I would like to know more about."
 "What?" asked Lucia, confused.
 "Sneezing. How do humans do it? I keep trying, but I cannot seem to get it
 right." Data tried to sneeze. 
Lucia laughed.
 "What is so funny? I also find human humour difficult to understand."  Data
 sounded frustrated.
 "Hang on, Data - One thing at a time. A sneeze is an involuntary action. You
 can't control it. It just happens."
 "How?"
 "Well, there's two ways one can sneeze - one, from a disease called a cold,
 which is quite rare now, and two, when the nose is irritated."  Lucia sneezed
 again. "You see? I didn't control that. I haven't got a cold. There's
 something very small inside my nose which is making me sneeze."
 "I see" said Data. " Is there any possible way I could sneeze? .... Just
 once?"
 "I don't know, Data ..... Um .... Wait a second." Data paused. "I have
 waited a second."
Lucia smiled again. "Just wait a little longer - Computer, freeze program and
change setting to a middle-classed old fashioned restaurant."
In a flash, the setting changed to a late twentieth century restaurant. Data
and Lucia found themselves sitting at the corner table. Data looked around to
familiarise himself with the surroundings. He then turned back to Lucia and
saw her pick up a small glass object, with holes at the top.
 "Sniff this" she said.
Data looked confused.
 "What is it?" he asked, as he took it from her.
 "Just sniff it, Data, and sniff hard."
Data curiously eyed the object that Lucia had given him, and sniffed hard. He
then looked inquisitively at her.
 "I do not understand why ....."
Then it happened. For the first time in his life - Data truly sneezed. He
could not believe it. He hardly had any time to be surprised, before he
sneezed again, and again.
 "I finally did it!" he exclaimed. "What was in that object?"
 "Pepper."
 "Pepper? Is that not an additive humans use to enhance flavour of certain
 foods?"
 "It also makes you sneeze, Data."
Data smiled. "Thank you."
 "Nah ..... It was nothin' really."
Together they stood up, walked toward the exit of the restaurant and out into
the street, the crisp, cold night air all around them. Lucia slipped her arm
through Data's, then gave him a kiss.
The two were then violently thrown onto the floor. The holodeck scene
instantly changed back to the beach setting, then to the restaurant, then to
the street and then it was blank. Showing only the glowing yellow grid.
 "Commander Data, report to the bridge immediately!"

The holodeck doors appeared and began to slide open and closed.
 "How will we know when to go through?"
Lucia readied herself to make the dash.
 "Wait" said Data. "You may injure yourself. Perhaps I can hold the doors
 open."
Data took hold of one door and then the other, holding them apart with his
immense android strength. Lucia darted out underneath him. Data quickly
released the doors and leapt out of the way as they slammed shut.
 "Holodeck deactivated" came the voice of the computer.
 "Phew .... We got out of there just in time" gasped Lucia. 
Data made sure she was not hurt.
He then stood up and charged into the turbolift. The ride was rocky, but he
soon arrived on the bridge and instantly was at his post.
 "What do you make of that, Mr. Data?"
Captain Picard pointed to the viewscreen.
 "It appears to be a cloud of ionized gas particles, Captain, but the sensors
 disconfirm that. It is an energy cloud of some kind, but of what kind, I
 cannot be sure."
There was a pause. Then the Ops terminal gave a buzz. Data glanced down at it
and his eyes widened.
 "Captain!" he exclaimed, "the sensors have confirmed the  energies of this
 cloud to be identical to the alien energy Geordi detected in Engineering."
 "Shields up!  Red Alert!"
Data's fingers flew across the Ops console.
 "Captain, shields will not have any effect. Sensors indicate the alien
 energy is already aboard the Enterprise, and levels of it are increasing at
 alarming rates in the Engineering Hull."

Engineering was in utter chaos. Geordi was madly trying to secure the
antimatter containment tanks. He slapped his combadge.
 "Captain! Everything's going haywire down here! We're doing everything we
 can, but the energy levels are increasing fast. If it keeps up, we're gonna
 have to dump the antimatter core."
 "Do what you have to, Geordi. Picard out. Data, is there any way to stop
 it?"
Jean-Luc's voice was full of urgency; the android was calm as ever.
 "I am trying, sir, but the energy appears to be fluctuating and therefore is
 altering readings."
 "Captain!" came Geordi's urgent voice, "the energy is beginning to overload
 the antimatter containment tanks! I'm gonna have to dump it."
 "Make it so."
Geordi began initiating the sequence to emergency dump the antimatter.
 "Captain! .... Something's gone wrong! .... I can't dump the core! It won't
 budge .... And it's going to blow in less than four minutes! ...."
A shiver ran up the spines of all on the bridge, with the exception of Data,
who was busily monitoring the Ops console.
 "Captain ..." he said, "the alien energy is beginning to spread from the
 Engineering Hull, throughout the entire ship. It has not yet reached the
 Saucer Section. I suggest we prepare for Emergency Saucer Separation. I can
 see no way to save the Engineering Hull. If we separate, at least one of the
 sections will be saved."
Jean-Luc took a deep breath, wishing there was another way out of this. A way
to save everyone.
Data's thoughts were for his best friend, Geordi La Forge. They had been
through so much together and Geordi had always been there when Data needed
him.
 Thank you, Geordi. Thank you for everything. I wish I could save you, but I
 can't. I'm sorry ... Goodbye ....
 "Make it so" said the captain, after a pause. "Separate."
Worf began the sequence for Emergency Saucer Separation.
 "Captain! The controls are not responding! Separation is impossible ...."
Picard spun to tactical. "What?!"
 "The energy has now infiltrated the Saucer Section, Captain," informed Data.
 "Estimated time to total destruction of the Enterprise, two minutes and
 forty seconds."
 This is the end Jean-Luc thought. The end. I have always known the risks
 involved being the captain of a starship, I always knew it would come. But
 not now. Not like this ...
 "Captain!" called Data, abruptly, "I believe there may be a way to save the
 Enterprise."
Picard spun towards him.
 "What will be involved, Captain, is ...."
 "Forget the explanation, Data!" snapped Riker. "Do it! We only have about a
 minute left."
 "Forty-nine seconds, sir." Data tapped his communicator.
 "Transporter Chief, lock onto the coordinates of the antimatter containment
 tank in Engineering and beam it directly into the centre of the energy
 cloud."
 "Data?" questioned Picard.
 "I know exactly what I am doing, Captain."
 "Proceed with the transport."
The antimatter core was beamed to the coordinates specified by the Second
Officer.
 "Raise shields" ordered Picard.
The galactic explosion witnessed was spectacular. All but Data were
temporarily blinded by its brightness. The Enterprise rocked heavily. When
she stabilized, Data checked the Ops console.
 "Captain," he said comfortably, "the alien energy is no longer aboard the
 Enterprise. The antimatter totally disintegrated it."
Relief overwhelmed everyone, except Data. 
The chief engineer's voice sounded over the Captain's communicator.
 "Bridge, everything's A-OK down here" he informed. "A few injuries, but
 that's all."
 "Good to hear it, Geordi," smiled Jean-Luc. "We owe our lives to Data."
Geordi smiled and nodded. "That's my pal."
Data smiled, grateful to hear his friend's voice.
 Will Riker sat down in his chair.
 "Phew .... another moment and that thing would've cooked our goose."
Data turned around in his chair, his quizzical look taking over his fair
complexion. "Goose, sir? I detect no ...."
Will smiled and shook his head. "Don't worry about it, Data. If it wasn't
for you, the ..."
 "The goose would have been cooked, sir?"
Jean-Luc, Deanna and Will smiled.
 "Something like that, yes."
Data gave a small smile, but still looked confused.
 "Captain," he then said, "we are now travelling on impulse power. The time
 we will take to reach the derelict has altered from the original. Our ETA at
 its coordinates are six hours and thirty-one minutes."
 "Thank you, Data."
Captain Picard then looked at his Second Officer, and something faint caught
his attention.
 "Data, what's that?"
Data frowned and looked puzzled. "What is what, Captain?"
 "That - on your face?"
Data looked at his reflection in the Ops console. He blinked and quickly
wiped the dash of lipstick away.
 "Er .... nothing .... Captain ....."
Will Riker looked away and a smile broke out on his face.
 "Dismissed, Mr. Data," said Jean-Luc, not wanting to pursue the matter.
Data gave an abrupt nod and walked promptly to the turbolift. He could feel
the eyes of the entire bridge crew watching him. Why are they all staring at
me? Did I say or do something wrong?
Data did not turn around. The bridge crew were even more surprised when they
heard the android sneeze just as the turbolift doors were about to open.
"Excuse me, please."
Data then entered the lift without saying another word. 
Will Riker turned to Jean-Luc, eyes wide.
 "Was that a sneeze, sir?"
The captain raised his eyebrows and gave a surprised nod.
 "Yes, Number One, I believe it was."

Lieutenant Commander Talon was Ten-Forward, sitting alone, with one of
Guinan's specialities in hand. Commander Riker walked to her table and sat
next to her.
 "Mind if I sit here?"
Lucia looked at him.  "I suppose not."
Frankly she wished Data would come.
 "So, why's a beautiful girl like you sitting all alone?"
The statement caught Lucia off guard.
 "I .... I don't know .... Just wanted a drink I guess...."
Riker eyed her. "Come on ... I think you're lonely ..."
Lucia was getting slightly agitated.
 "Come with me .... I'll take you to the holodeck."
 "I've already been to Holodeck Two with ...."
Lucia's voice trailed off. Riker was interested.
 "With who?"
Lucia wouldn't answer. 
 "Come on ...." insisted Riker. "Who with? ...."
 "With all due respect, sir, It's none of your business."
Riker looked a trifle offended at that.
 "I'm sorry ...." he said with an apologetic face. "You know ... the light of
 this place makes your eyes look beautiful..."
 "Commander..."
At that moment, Data walked into Ten-Forward.
 Thank God ... thought Lucia.
 "Excuse me, Commander, but I'm really not interested."
Riker nodded, a trifle upset. Lucia stood and walked to Data.
 "Hi, Data," she said.
Data turned around to face her. "Hello, Lucia."
 "Let's go" she said softly.
 "But I have only just arrived ..."
Lucia looked around and saw Riker's eyes fixed on her. She gave him a fierce
look. Riker instantly looked away. Lucia kissed Data and the two walked out
of Ten-Forward. Riker watched them go. He didn't take his eyes away from the
entrance, until a familiar figure stood before him. Riker looked up.
 "Guinan."
 "Can I get you something?"
Riker hesitated, then said, "no ... no thanks."
 "You jealous?"
Riker looked up at Guinan. "What about?"
Guinan looked at him, implying Riker knew exactly what about.
 "I don't know .... she's a beautiful woman, but I can't help feeling happy
 for Data."
 "So, ask yourself again - Are you jealous?"
Riker looked at her and after a pause softly said, "I guess not."

Data and Lucia were walking down the corridor.
 "Somebody should keep that Riker on a leash."
Data was not sure he understood what Lucia meant, but said nothing about it.
 "Lucia," he then said, "I have I have lost my tapestry needle."
 "No problem, Data. I'll get you another."
At that moment, Captain Picard's voice sounded over both their communicators.
 "Commander Data and Commander Talon, please report to the bridge - Now."
 "On our way, Captain," transmitted Lucia.
They walked to the turbolift and the doors opened. Data gestured to Lucia to
enter the turbolift first. He then followed her.
 "Main Bridge."
The doors hissed shut.

The turbolift opened. Lieutenant Commander Data and Talon walked onto the
bridge.
 "You sent for us, Captain?" inquired Data.
 "Yes, I did, Data. StarFleet Command has hailed us urgently and we've lost
 the signal."
 "I shall attempt to relocate it, Captain."
Data sat at Ops and Lucia sat at Conn. She stood up instantaneously with a
ear-piercing shriek. Startled, Jean-Luc looked quickly at her.
 "Commander, explain ...."
 "Data ...." she said, gingerly, "I've found your needle."
Then embarrassed, she sat down again without saying another word. She handed
the needle to Data, who gave her nod. He opened his mouth, but found he did
not know how to say what he was thinking - feeling. He wanted to apologise,
but didn't know how. Lucia could see this and smiled. 
 "It's all right," she mouthed to him.
Data was quite relieved that Lucia was not in the slightest, angry with him.
 She is so understanding .... he thought. She treats me as if I were a human
 and she cares about me. 
Data looked over at Lucia, who was busily studying her console.
 No matter how much I wish I could have any feelings for her, I must remember
 - I am incapable of emotion. I will have to live with that for the remainder
 of my existence ...

 "Mr. Data, have you located the frequency?"
Data was deep in thought.
 Perhaps someday I will learn what emotions actually mean, but will I ever
 truly feel them?  This is a question that can only be answered in time, if
 answered at all.

Irritated, the captain raised his voice.
 "Mr. Data, is there something wrong with your hearing?"
Data blinked.
 "Negative, sir. I am functioning at optimum level. My hearing is ...."
 "This is the third time I'm asking you."
 "I apologise, Captain. I was .... thinking about something."
 "Kindly think about your duty. Have you located the frequency?"
 "Not as yet, sir."

A few moments later ....
 "Captain, I have something. It is very faint. Audio only."
 "Is it the StarFleet message?"
 "I believe so, sir."
 "Pipe it through, quickly."
 "Enterprise ..." came the urgent voice of Admiral Onel. "This is an
 extremely urgent warning. The Romulans have blamed the Federation for the
 destruction of three of their Warbirds, due to an unknown alien energy
 source. They are aware of your mission into the Neutral Zone and believe you
 are going to attempt to destroy them. They will be waiting for you,
 Jean-Luc. They may even attempt to intercept the Enterprise. "
 "Admiral, we are not responsible" emphasized Picard. "The energy almost
 destroyed the Enterprise as well."
 "I know, you are not responsible, Captain Picard. All our attempts of
 negotiation with the Romulans have failed completely. You must be extremely
 careful."
 "Thank you for the warning, Admiral. We are taking all the necessary
 precautions. We've already manage to increase shield efficiency by
 thirty-seven percent."                                                    
 "Jean-Luc, even if you fail, StarFleet will always know you did your best.
 The name Enterprise will never be forgotten. StarFleet out."
 "One disaster after another ...." muttered Picard. "There won't be any
 prizes for the person who guesses what's going to happen next ..."

A few hours later, Data and Lucia were off duty, and were in the turbolift,
going to their separate quarters. Data was unaware of it, but Lucia was
staring at him.
 He's been so kind to me .... When my leg was hurt, he was so gentle .... And
 aboard the holodeck .... that was so romantic. It was beautiful, even though
 Data didn't understand it as I did. Maybe he did inside, but didn't know
 what it was .... I feel so sorry for him. He tries so hard and never seems
 to get what he deserves. All he wants is to be human ....
Lucia quickly wiped a tear from her cheek as Data turned around. The
turbolift doors hissed open. Lucia walked out and Data continued on to deck
fifteen.

In her quarters, Lucia sat in her chair and turned the computer monitor
toward her.
 "Computer," she said, "requesting all available information on Lieutenant
 Commander Data."
 "Working ..."
 "Lieutenant Commander Data was the second sentient android created by Doctor
 Noonian Soong, earth's foremost robotic scientist. He has a computational
 speed of 60 trillion operations per second and a total storage capacity of
 800 quadrillion bits.... "
The computer continued with Data's technical schematics and history in
StarFleet. Lucia was very impressed, with Data's medals and achievements. 
 "Intriguing .... as Data would say ..... Computer, you said Data was the
 second android. Who was the first?"
  "The first sentient android created by Dr. Noonian Soong was Lore."
The computer went on to tell Lucia more about Lore.
  "An android with a criminal record. Data's evil twin ... Weird family... I
  wonder how Data feels about Lore?..."

Quite a while later, the computer had finished. Lucia was glad to have more
of an understanding of Data.

Data was in his quarters, reading a book, entitled HANDLING FIGHTS IN A
RELATIONSHIP - The Male Role.
He finished the book in a matter of seconds.
 "Most intriguing ...." he found himself saying. "Perhaps I will do better
 this time ...."
Data put the book on the ledge. He then sat down and continued with his
tapestry enjoying the peaceful pastime. Realising he had almost run out of
brown wool, he left to get some more. While he was gone, Lucia walked into
his quarters.
 "Data ...." she called.
She saw there was no one here. She then walked towards Data's unfinished
tapestry.
 "He's good at this ...." she said to herself. "Most intriguing ...."
Lucia then looked on the ledge and saw the book.
 "Ohh .... that poor guy ...." she said quietly, sympathetically. "He tries
 so hard .... I'll play along with him ...."
Lucia then turned and looked again at the tapestry. At that moment, Data
walked into his quarters and saw Lucia in there, with her back to him.
 Now is my chance .... he thought.
He put the wool over the book and looked at Lucia.
 "Get out of my way" he snapped.
Lucia turned around and looked at him.
 "What?" she asked, a little confused.
 "You are in my way" snapped Data impertinently. "Move."
Lucia realised what Data was trying to do.
 "You're a very rude android" she hissed, playing along with him.
Data then slapped her across her face with the correct amount of pressure.
Lucia put her hand over her cheek, shook her head and recovered. She then
tried to grab Data's arms, but he grabbed hers first. Lucia pushed against
him, forcing him backwards. Data knew he could easily better her, but he was
limiting his strength to that of a human his size and build. Data forced
Lucia backwards and onto the floor. He was on top of her in no time, holding
her down. Lucia pushed the android off her, climbed on top of him and held
him down with all her strength. Lucia then eased her grip on Data's wrists.
Data grabbed her arms. Lucia didn't retaliate, but drew her head closer to
Data's and kissed him. Data released his grip on Lucia's wrists and slowly
put his arms around her back. Then he stopped.
 "No .... no ... I cannot do this ...." he said, sitting up.
 "Why not, Data?" asked Lucia. "I'm sorry if I've... "
 "No .... it is not your fault .... It is mine .... I tried to have a
 relationship before and it did not work. I hurt Jenna's feelings. I did not
 mean to ...."
Gently, Lucia kissed Data.
 "No ...." said Data, raising his voice. "I can't!"
Data blinked, frowned a little then inclined his head to one side.
 "I used a contraction!"
He hugged Lucia, perhaps a little too hard. Lucia coughed, shook her head,
then smiled.
 "Sorry ..." he said, an apologetic look on his face.
Lucia smiled.
 "You can, Data, if you put your mind and heart to it."
 "That's ... just it " said Data, "I do not have a heart."
 "You do, Data .... just ...."
 "Lucia, I do not. I cannot feel anything."
 "You can feel, Data, you just don't realise it. "
 "But how can ...."
 "Data, I'm sure you've heard the story of the Tin Man, how he wanted a heart
 so badly, he didn't realise that he already had one. I believe it's the same
 with you."
Data gave a small smile. "How can I know if that is true?"
 "You will know in time, Data, all good things succumb to those who wait and,
 Data, nothing you do will offend or hurt me. I know that is not your intent."
Data nodded. "I am extremely grateful to you, Lucia, for being so
understanding. It would seem no one had ever understood me this well, apart
from my close friends."
Lucia smiled. "It is my pleasure, Data, always, and, " Lucia inclined her
head to one side, "you would not consider others as friends if you did not
have any emotions."
 "I have never thought of it like that before, but, Lucia, as much as I would
 like to think I have emotions, I ...."
Lucia put her finger over Data's mouth.
 "How do you feel about your brother Lore?" she asked.
  "How do you know about...."
  "I was looking in some computer files."
  "Lore is jealous of me and he is evil."
  "Was he always like that?"
  "My father, Dr. Soong would not have made him evil. Lore said that the
  colonists rejected him. Perhaps that is why he turned against him."
  "Have you ever tried to understand him?" Lucia asked. "Perhaps he wouldn't
  be evil if someone accepted him."
Data nodded. "Perhaps, but I have yet to confront him again to test that
theory."
Lucia smiled. "Where were we, Data?.... Yes .... right here...."
They started kissing passionately.

 "Lucia," said Data, after a while, "most humans would find it hard if not
 impossible to have a relationship with a machine. You ...."
 "Data .... you're not a machine ....."
 "I am a machine, Lucia. I was created by ...."
 "Yes, Data. I know Dr. Noonian Soong. You have the components of a machine,
 but you are sentient. Machines are not sentient. I don't like the term
 'machine' to describe you."
Data looked at her, inquisitively.
 "What ... term would you choose, then?"
 "Data, you're .... I like to think of you as a mechanical life form."
Data's expression showed he agreed.
 "And," said Lucia smiling, gently putting her arm around his back,
 "-Computer, dim the lights - You're a very sexy android..."

Commander William Riker was on his way to the bridge.
 "Picard to Riker."
The First Officer tapped his communicator.
 "Riker here, sir."
 "Locate Commander Data, and both of you report to the bridge."
 "Aye, sir."
Riker turned to the computer.
 "Computer," he said, "locate Lieutenant Commander Data."
 "Lieutenant Commander Data is in his private quarters."
Commander Riker walked to Data's quarters. He sounded the door buzzer. There
was no reply. Riker then opened the door and took a step inside.
 "Dat ...." he began to say.
His gaze then met the floor, where he saw Lieutenant Commander Data and
Lieutenant Commander Talon rolling around on the floor, kissing passionately,
seeming to have a wonderful time. Will's eyes almost shot out of their
sockets, as he stood there, gaping like a goldfish. He then stepped out of
Data's quarters and silently began to walk the other way. Despite the initial
shock, Will could not help smiling to himself. 
 "Pinocchio's discovered women ...."
William then hopped into the turbolift.
 "Bri...dge."

The turbolift doors hissed open and Commander Riker stepped out onto the
bridge.
 "Number One, where's Data?"
 "Uh .... he's busy at the moment, Captain .... very busy .... It's not
 urgent is it?"
 " No " said Picard. " No one is manning the Ops station at the moment. I
 need to estimate the time we have left before we reach the derelict vessel.
 No matter. I'll do it. "
Jean-Luc then sat at Ops and flexed his fingers.
 "Three hours, twenty-nine minutes."
 "And thirty-five seconds ..." added Will with a smile.

Meanwhile, in Data's quarters, the two still lay close together on the floor.
Lucia sensed someone else was near. She looked sidewards and shrieked. A face
was peering at them.
 "Do not be alarmed" said Data. "This is my friend, Spot."
 "You didn't tell me you had a cat, Data."
 "You never asked."
Lucia smiled and gently stroked Spot. The cat began to purr. Data then stood
up, holding both Lucia and Spot in his arms. The cat jumped onto the ledge
and pawed the wool. Data put Lucia down. Lucia saw the book again. She picked
it up.
 "Data, you don't need this to impress me."
Data seemed to be embarrassed, but said nothing as Lucia continued. "I like
you the way you are. You try so hard to be human. Perhaps just be yourself
for a change."
Data nodded. "Thank you, Lucia. I will make a note of that."
He then gently kissed her.
 "Data," she said, "can you do some more of this painting? I would love to
 see you paint."
Data smiled at her, picked up his paints and began. The painting did not take
him long to complete, as he was almost finished.
 "Now ..." he said, putting the paintbrush down. "What should I entitle it,
 Lucia?  Any ideas?"
 "Data .... this is your painting. Your work of art. You created it. You
 think of a title. You probably have more ideas than I do anyway."
Data nodded. He had a thoughtful look on his face. He then looked at his
painting.
 "As I said to you before, it is not a painting of anything in particular. It
 is simply free strokes of the brush. "
Data inclined his head to the right and paid particular attention to the
colours merging freely into one and other.
 "Ah" he said, abruptly. "I have an idea."
 "I knew you would, Data," smiled Lucia, putting her hand around his back.
Data then picked up a fine brush, dipped it in brown paint and bent down to
the painting. He painted the title in the left hand corner.

			    Freedom
			 Lt Commander
			     Data 

 "Data .... that's beautiful" gasped Lucia. "Freedom .... that is exactly
 what your painting portrays."
She then gazed directly into Data's luminous golden eyes.
 "Data .... how can you have given the painting such a beautiful name if you
 had no feelings?"
The android's confused look took over his complexion.
 "I do not know, but I told you I have no ...."
 "Shhh, Data, " silenced Lucia, gently. "You do have emotions, you just don't
 realise it."
Data smiled, not of pleasure, but with what appeared like pain, longing.
 "I wish I could believe that."
Lucia put her arms around Data and gave him a light hug.
 "Believe it, Data. You ...."
 "Shhh," said Data quietly, as he kissed her, gently.

	Captain's Log, Stardate 46236.5:
	We have entered the Neutral Zone and are on full alert. As yet we
	have had no confrontation with the Romulans. I have a feeling,
	however that may change - soon.

 "At least we haven't bumped into the Romulans" pointed out the First
 Officer, hoping the situation would not change. "Mr. Worf, can you locate
 any Romulan vessels?"
Worf checked tactical. "Not as yet, sir. Sensors indicate no other vessels in
this area besides the Enterprise and the derelict. But, sir, the Romulans may
'bump into us' if they are cloaked."
 "Understood, Lieutenant. Keep scanning."
 "Aye, sir."
A few moments later, Worf looked up from tactical.
 "Captain, detecting an unusual energy source ...."
Jean-Luc looked out of the viewscreen. He instantaneously hit his combadge.
 "Commander Data, Commander Talon, report to the bridge - Immediately."
 "Damn" cursed Lucia, under her breath. "Always in the middle of
 something ...."
She zipped up the top of her uniform and Data wiped the lipstick off his
face. He then touched his communicator.
 " On our way, Captain."
Data and Lucia raced into the turbolift.

 "Data." Picard's voice was somewhat urgent. He pointed to the viewscreen.
 "Is that the same type of energy cloud that almost destroyed the Enterprise?"
Data sat at Ops and checked the console.
 "Confirmed, Captain. The energy readings are identical, and appear to have
 the same fluctuations."
 It's going to happen again thought Jean-Luc. How can we stop it this time?
 "Captain ...." Data's voice sounded very surprised. "The sensors are reading
 possible life signs."
 "Life signs?"  Jean-Luc was astonished. " Are you sure?"
The Enterprise was then blasted by the cloud. Captain Picard stood his ground.
 "Shields up, quickly!  Red Alert. Arm phasers and photon torpedoes."
 "Armed, sir. Shields up," boomed Worf.
The Red Alert klaxon blared and the blood red glow flooded the bridge.
 "Captain," said Data, turning in his chair, "the cloud is definitely showing
 signs of sentience. Readings also indicate a single phaser blast or photon
 torpedo will instantly destroy it."
The Enterprise was blasted a second time.
 "Shields holding, sir," boomed the Klingon, "but power has been reduced by
 twelve percent. I suggest we destroy the creature now, while we still have
 the chance - Before it destroys us."
Data looked at the viewscreen. "Captain .... it is changing both color and
form...."
Jean-Luc turned and saw what was happening. He too was puzzled.
 "Captain!" exclaimed Counsellor Troi suddenly, "I'm sensing fear -
 unbelievable fear .... What ever that is out there, it is alive. It is
 terrified."
Bill Riker saw the anguish in Deanna's eyes, almost identical to the pain she
had sensed at Farpoint. He felt sympathetic. I'm with you, Imzadi ...
 "Captain, we are being hailed by the creature" interrupted Worf.
 "Open hailing frequencies."
 "Aye, sir. Hailing frequencies open."
A message came through, but in alien tongue.
 "Patch in Universal Translator, Mr. Data."
 "Done, sir."
 ".... Don't hurt me ..... Please don't kill me .... " begged The creature,
 sounding as though it was crying." I mean you no harm...."
 "Then why did you fire on our vessel?" barked Riker.
 "I did not know your intent. I .... I was frightened .... I'm sorry, I ...."
 "This is a Federation Starship" interrupted Picard, "not designed for war,
 but for peaceful purposes. We have no wish to harm you. I assure you, we
 come in peace. May I remind you, it is you who attacked the Enterprise in
 the first place. Who are you? - What are you?"
Deanna could sense the creature had calmed considerably. Bill saw her
relaxing and felt grateful.
 "I am Y'ran" introduced the creature. "You have my sincere apologies,
 Enterprise. I attacked you in self defence, but I realise, now, reason
 should have come first. I had no idea I had provoked you into readying your
 weapons."
 "A necessary precaution" explained Lieutenant Worf. "You did not know our
 intent and we did not know yours. It is fortunate our shields were
 operating."
Y'ran apologised again.
 "Apologies accepted, Y'ran," forgave Jean-Luc, "but now we must ask you to
 leave this sector of space. Your being here has created difficulties and may
 lead to a war."
Y'ran was confused. "I do not understand."
 "You are in a sector of space which we call the 'Neutral Zone.' By being
 here, you have complicated matters with us and the Romulans. The matter goes
 back ..."
 "I understand" said Y'ran. "I detected energy readings here - identical to
 those given off by my people, but I discovered that I was picking up my own
 signal beam, which had somehow come into contact with this vessel. I will
 leave and continue my search elsewhere."
 "Search?" inquired Jean-Luc.
 "It is a long story ..." began Y'ran, "but I will shorten it. Our sector of
 the universe is many millions of light years from here. Long ago, a black
 hole appeared, and almost all of my people perished inside it. Only a
 handful of us managed to escape, but we lost all contact. I have been
 roaming the universe in search of them ever since the catastrophe. - Ten
 million years ago. I send out signal beams to try to locate them, but so far
 it has been in vain."
 "Captain," said Data. "I believe Y'ran's signal beams were the cause of our
 problems."
 "Explain, please" came the voice of Y'ran.
 "We encountered a strange alien energy ..." Picard began to explain.
He concluded with, "... we were able to destroy the last one, but only just."
"You have my sincere apologies. I did not know my signal beams would cause
harm. I am so sorry .... I cannot believe I caused harm to other life
forms ...."
 "It was not your intention" comforted Counsellor Troi, sensing Y'ran's
 guilt, despair and pain. "You have our sympathy." 
 "Thank you, Enterprise. I will leave you now."
Y'ran did as he promised and zoomed out of sight, perhaps on his way back to
his galaxy, possibly to come into contact with his people someday.

Data's eyebrows went up, higher than anyone had ever seen them go.
 "Captain ...." he began, almost in disbelief. "Y'ran accelerated from zero
 to warp nine point nine-nine in less than one second, without any warp
 propulsion systems ...."
Commander Riker raised his eyebrows.
 "I'd call that fast .... Now, we'd better get this rescue mission under way
 so we can hotfoot it out of here before the Romulans ....."
Data looked up at him, an inquisitive look in the android's eyes. "Inquiry -
Hotfoot?"
 "Forget it, Data."
Data tilted his head a little, then turned back to Ops.
 "We are approaching the derelict craft, Commander Riker," he informed.
 "Captain," interrupted Worf, abruptly, his head shooting up from tactical.
 "A vessel is approaching. It is a Romulan warbird."
Riker tensed. "Uh oh .... "
 "Their disruptors are reading as fully armed " informed the Klingon.
 "Be ready for anything" said Captain Picard, "but keep calm,  everyone."
Despite the captain's words, tension on the bridge was escalating.
 "Captain, the Romulans are hailing us."
 "Open hailing frequencies, Mr. Worf."
 "Open, sir."
Two Romulans appeared on the viewscreen of the Enterprise's Main Bridge.
 "I am Captain Tarogh. I demand you explain your illegal presence in the
 Neutral Zone."
 "I am Captain Jean ...."
 "We know who you are, Picard! " snapped Tarogh. "Explain your...."
 "We know we are in the wrong" admitted Jean-Luc. "We have orders from
 StarFleet Command to rescue ...."
 "Don't hide it from us, Picard. We know why you are here. You are here to
 destroy us."
 "You are wrongfully accusing us. We ...."
 "Do not lie!" fumed Tarogh. "Three of our finest Warbirds were destroyed by
 an energy the Federation somehow developed. I will not let you destroy us,
 do you hear?!"  Tarogh's anger was threatening to explode any second.
 "We are not going to destroy you" assured Jean-Luc. "We are innocent. The
 energy you speak of was also encountered by us."
Captain Picard explained about their encounter with Y'ran.
 "I do not believe you, Picard," concluded Captain Tarogh. "If you had
 encountered the energy, the Enterprise would have been destroyed."
Picard was firing up, but he kept his cool. "The reason we were not
destroyed, Captain Tarogh, is we beamed our antimatter core out of the
Enterprise, destroying the energy cloud. If we had not done that, you would
not be talking to us right now."
Captain Tarogh took a moment to think. The viewscreen on the bridge of the
Enterprise went blank.
Tarogh to his second-in-command. 
 "Talez, scan the Enterprise. If you detect any antimatter aboard it, I will
 destroy it without warning."
Talez performed the scan.  No antimatter is aboard, sir. Perhaps we can trust
them."
 "Perhaps, but if it they did not destroy our Warbirds, who did? ...."
 "I do not know, sir."
Tarogh nodded. "Open hailing frequencies."
 "The Enterprise  is standing by, Captain."

 "Captain," called Worf, looking up from tactical at the Romulan Warbird,
 "the Romulans are powering down their disruptors."
Tension eased on the bridge.

Once again, the two Romulans appeared on the viewscreen.
 "Enterprise, we have confirmed that no antimatter is aboard your ship. We
 are considering that you have told us the truth. I may have overreacted.
 My ... only brother was on one of the Warbirds destroyed ... But, Captain
 Picard, there is still the matter of your violation of the Neutral Zone."
Jean-Luc began to explain. "We have orders from StarFleet Command to rescue
any survivors that may be inside a derelict vessel that has been located in
the Neutral Zone. I too disfavor this situation..."
He finished with, "... I realise our presence here aroused your suspicion,
and appears provocative, but, Captain Tarogh, we are here for one reason and
one only - To save lives. Nothing more."
 "Proceed with your rescue mission, Captain Picard, but be warned, if you
 try anything suspicious, we will not hesitate to fire."
The viewscreen went blank. 
 "Sir," said Worf, "the Romulans are rearming their disruptors."
Picard turned. "Counsellor?"
 "At this moment, they do not intend to fire, Captain. I sense confusion,
 anger and grief. Tarogh is under a tremendous amount of emotional pain due
 to the loss of his brother. I cannot be sure if he will act on his threat.
 Romulans are extremely unpredictable. I suggest we proceed with caution."
 "I'm with Deanna" agreed Will. "Let's be careful."
The bridge crew focused their attention on the strange looking derelict
craft. It was floating in outer space, appearing to be motionless.
 "Magnify, Mr. Data," said Picard.
The craft looked even stranger when the image was magnified.
 "Can you identify it, Data?"
The third in command shook his head.
 "Negative, Captain. It is unlike any craft the Enterprise or any other
 Federation vessel has ever encountered."
 "Captain," said Lucia, abruptly, "I'm picking up life signs, but I can't be
 sure what type."
Picard turned to Ops. "Mr. Data, elaborate."
 "Life signs have been detected, Captain, but sensors cannot be certain if
 they are biological, mechanical or other. Judging from these scans, the life
 forms aboard are not humanoid."
 "Open hailing frequencies."
 "Open, sir," came Worf's voice.
 "This is Captain Jean-Luc Picard of the USS Enterprise. We have been sent to
 rescue you."
There was a pause.
 "No response, Captain," informed Worf.
The captain then tapped his communicator. "Picard to Transporter Chief. Can
you get a fix on the life forms in the derelict? "
 "Negative, sir. Not yet. The energy of that Y'ran creature's signal beam is
 aboard the derelict and is interfering with the transporter, but we can
 transport something or someone there."
Captain Picard then turned around.
 "Number One, prepare a minimal Away Team."
 "Aye, sir. Data. Talon."
Data and Lucia stood up and followed the First Officer to the turbolift. The
doors hissed open, and they entered.
 "Transporter Room Three."

The three of them stood on the transporter pads and set their phasers on stun.
 "Energize" said Riker.
The Away Team shimmered as they were beamed directly aboard the derelict.
They instantly drew their phasers. Seeing there was no apparent danger, the
weapons were lowered. Riker pushed his combadge.
 "We're here, Captain, but we have not as yet seen anyone."  
 "This is a relatively small ship" added Data, "so I would hypothesize that
 there are few survivors."
 "Understood" said Picard. "Maintain open frequencies."
 "Aye, sir."
The Away Team split up and began searching. Further on, Data was detecting
possible life signs. As he drew the tricorder upwards, he noticed several
forms of plant life in what seemed to be scientific observation capsules.
 "No survivors have been located as yet, Captain," he reported, "but the
 tricorder has located several forms of plant life which appear to be
 contained for scientific study. Perhaps this was what the sensors detected."
 "Perhaps, Data, but there may be survivors. Keep searching."
 "Aye, sir."

Captain Picard touched his combadge. "Chief, can you get a fix on the Away
Team? I want them beamed up immediately if anything goes wrong."
 "Aye, sir. I haven't got an exact fix, but I'm working on it. I'll keep you
 posted."

Data left the plants and made his way to what appeared to be the Main Bridge.
There, he saw three navy blue skinned people lying on the floor. He turned
one of them over. Data pushed his communicator.
 "Captain, I have located three motionless humanoid life forms aboard the
 Main Bridge of the derelict vessel. Two male, one female. They do not appear
 to be any form of life that we or any other Federation vessel have
 encountered. They are ..." Data then stopped.
 "Captain," he said, "judging from their uniforms, the plants and the
 structure of this vessel, I would theorize that it was intended purely for
 scientific purposes, and..."
 "Mr. Data ..." interrupted Picard, "it doesn't matter what their purpose is.
 Are they showing any life signs?"
Data drew his tricorder and checked. "No, sir. None."
 "Have you any idea as to what killed them?"
 "I cannot give an exact account, Captain. They appear to have been dead for
 some time. I would hypothesize that there was an explosion aboard the bridge.
 All three of them have extensive burns to their bodies. Perhaps it was a
 scientific experiment than went drastically wrong."
 "Copy, Data. Thank you. Number One? Lieutenant Talon?"
 "Talon's with me, Captain. Other than the plant specimens, and ourselves, we
 are detecting no life signs here."
The derelict then shook violently.
 "Away Team! What happened?!" exclaimed Jean-Luc, concerned.
Data hit his combadge. "The vessel jolted, sir, reason unknown."
A female voice sounded over the access panels of the derelict.

	"I am Captain Yondea Mirana. This is my final mission on the Tieo.
	Due to an extremely dangerous discovery, which we can only describe
	as an entity, that sends out pulses of highly destructive energy, I
	am forced to destroy ourselves and the Tieo. If our discovery falls
	into the wrong hands, the of the entity which calls itself Y'ran,
	could be used for destructive purposes, resulting in the cataclysmic
	obliteration of the Universe. Our Dolmarian legend has it that long
	ago, these creatures created a black hole in space which destroyed
	entire  worlds. We feel it is necessary to sacrifice ourselves for
	this reason. What are three lives compared to all life in the
	Universe? The Tieo must be destroyed to save the future. She was
	built entirely for peaceful, scientific purposes, not for war. 

	END OF LOG --"


There was a pause, and then the computer blipped.
 " The self destruct mechanism has been activated. The Tieo will self
 destruct in seven minutes and fifty seconds. Forty nine .... Forty eight ..."

 "Picard to Transporter Chief. Beam the Away Team up - Now."
 "I can't, Captain!" he replied, madly punching the transporter controls.
 "There's too much interference ....."
 "We need that transporter. The Away Team is in considerable danger. The
 derelict is going to ...."
 "I know, sir. Believe me, I'm doing everything I can."
 "Well do better" barked the captain. "Picard out."

Data dashed away from the entrance to the bridge. 
The Tieo jolted vigorously. Lucia was thrown into Will Riker's arms.
 "Quick!" he yelled, as some shelving came tumbling down, "we have to get
 outta here!"
Lucia and Will ran as fast as they could down one of the corridors. One of
the ship's computer terminals blew apart near Lucia. She screamed and was
thrust to one side.
 "Lucia! ...." shouted Will, desperately ripping through the smoke and
 sparks," are you all right?"
 "Yeah ... I'm fine .... sir."
 "Forget protocol for now. Our lives come first."
Will helped her up. They then continued to run down the corridor, with
explosions ripping all around them.

 "Picard to Transporter Chief ... Are the ..."
 "I've got something, sir! Yes! I'll be able to beam them up."
 "Do it! Now!"
 "Aye, sir."
Picard then turned to tactical.
 "Hail the Romulans, Mr. Worf."
 "Frequencies open, sir."
 "Captain Tarogh, all life forms on the derelict vessel whom we were sent to
 rescue were found to be dead. We are now pulling out of this sector."
Without a word, the Romulan vessel vanished.
 "They have engaged their cloaking device, sir," informed the Klingon.
 "I'm going to the Transporter Room Three. You have the bridge, Mr. Worf."
The security chief gave a curt nod. "Yes, Captain."

Commander Riker and Lieutenant Commander Talon dematerialized in the
glistening transporter beam and re-materialized on the transporter stage.
Captain Picard met them in the Transporter Room. Riker walked off transporter
pad. He then looked around.
 "Where's Data? ...."
Lucia saw a StarFleet communicator insignia on the transporter stage, bent
down and picked it up.
 "No! ...." she gasped. "He's still on that ship .... this is only his
 combadge...."
She looked desperately at Captain Picard.
 "Captain .... we have to go back for him...."
 "The Tieo's going to blow in less than five minutes" said Riker.
 "Captain ...." said Lucia, frantically, ".... we have to go back for Data.
 We can't let him die ...."
Jean-Luc took a deep breath. "Lucia, there's not enough time. There's no way
you can save him in four minutes."
 "Still, Captain, I have to try."
 "No, Lieutenant. Losing one friend and valid crew member is bad enough. I do
 not want to lose two - And the Romulans may still be out there."
 "I appreciate your concern, Captain, but ...."
 "No, Lieutenant."
 "Please, Jean-Luc ...."
 "No, Lucia. I cannot let ...."
 "Permission to insult, sir," snapped Lucia, sarcastically.
 "Not granted" Picard shot back. "You are to return to the bridge -
 immediately."
Lucia was silent for a short moment. She then looked behind Captain Picard.
 "Data!!" she exclaimed. "You made it!!"
Picard, Riker and the Transporter Chief spun around, but there was no one
there. The diversion created enough time for Lucia to activate the
transporter. 
 "Override!" yelled Picard.
  "I can't, sir!"
Picard wanted to feel angry, but for some reason, he was not.
 "How can anyone punish such bravery?"

Commander Talon was beamed directly to the Tieo.
 "This vessel will self destruct in three minutes and thirty- nine seconds.
 Thirty eight ...."
 "I have to find him ...." Lucia said to herself, determined.
She began frantically began searching.
 "DATA!! WHERE THE @#$% ARE YOU??!!"
Explosions erupted all around her and the ship's hull was beginning to break
apart. Some of the higher ledges tumbled down. Lucia quickly manoeuvred out
of the way. She then looked towards an open door. She ran to it and looked
inside. She saw the three dead scientists, but they were not her concern. Her
concern was Data. As Lucia ran in the other direction, she tripped over a
large slab of metal on the floor, which was on an angle. She peered under it.
"Data!!"
Lucia instantaneously knelt down to him and used all her strength to free him
from underneath the metal. She was a little confused, however. Data was much
stronger than her, so why couldn't he have freed himself? Lucia then gasped,
horrified. There was another, very sharp piece of metal which had sliced
through Data's chest and was still stuck inside him and he was bleeding
heavily. Lucia winced. 
 "Data, are you all right? ...."
There was no reply. The android just lay there, motionless.
 "Data .... Data say something, please!...."
Lucia managed to pry the metal loose and take it out of him. She cut her
hands, and they started bleeding, but she was too worried about Data to
notice the pain. Data slowly began to open his eyes. Lucia gasped with relief.
 "Where .... where am I? ..." asked Data, weakly. "I cannot see..."
 "You're on the Tieo, Data. It's set to self destruct. I came back for you."
 "No ...." said Data, weakly, sounding as though he was in pain," save
 yourself, Lucia."
 "No, Data. You're hurt. You're dying ... You need me. I didn't come back
 here to watch you die."
 "My destruction is inevitable now, Lucia, but you can still escape. Go now,
 while you still have a chance .... please ..."
 "No way, Data. You're coming with me. We're both coming out of this - alive."
 "Lucia, I am ... I'm too heavy for you .... You may not make it. Leave me
 here."
 "Shut up, Data - That's an order."
Lucia then smiled and helped Data stagger to his feet. The gash in the
android's chest was large. Lucia was not sure how much it was hurting him,
but it looked as though the android was in excruciating pain.
 "This vessel will self destruct in one minute and ten seconds... nine ..."
Data was quite heavy, but Lucia was determined to save him.
 " Come on ..." she said. "We don't have much time."
Data did his best to walk, but found it quite difficult in his damaged
predicament. His eyesight was beginning to return to him, but he saw only
blurred visions. Lucia staggered with him away from the exploding machinery,
out of danger.
 As they were staggering away, a sharp piece of metal sliced into Lucia's
 ankle. She shrieked with pain. Data stopped. He spoke weakly, but with
 concern. "Are you all right, Lucia?"
 "Yes .... I'm okay .... it's just my ankle, but saving our lives .... your
 life is my main concern right now."
Data appreciated Lucia's concern for him, but did not want her to sacrifice
herself on his account. Lucia managed to locate a corridor which appeared to
be safer than the others. She gave Data his communicator and hit hers.
 "Enterprise, two to beam up."
 "There's a malfunction .... The transporter is only capable of beaming one
 person up at a time."
There was a pause.
 "You go first, Lucia," said Data, breaking the silence.
 "No, Data, you ....."
 "I thank you and appreciate all you have done for me. I commend your
 bravery, but...."
 "But nothing, Data. You go first .... I love you."
Data smiled weakly.
 " Thank you for everything, Lucia. I appreciate all you have done for me,
 and I shall remember your kindness, always. I wish I could say 'I love you
 too', and return your love."
 "You already have, Data."
Data was confused, but before the android could say anything, Lucia pushed
his communicator in his hand, but not before she kissed him, passionately.
 " Enterprise," she said, "one to beam up." 
Before Data could do anything, he was beamed aboard the Enterprise. The
android collapsed on the transporter stage.
 " Captain, Data's badly wounded, he...."
 "Get him to sickbay" barked Picard from the bridge. "Have you got a fix on
 Commander Talon?"
 "I'm trying, sir, but there's too much interference ...
Sir .... I think I have something! Energising transporter!"
The image of Lucia began to form on the transporter stage.
 "Anything?" asked Jean-Luc.
 "Negative, sir. I almost got her, but I've lost her signal."

>From the viewscreen, the entire bridge crew witnessed the Tieo detonate in an
enormous, violent, spectacular explosion.
 "Shields up" said Picard, automatically
The bridge crew were left temporarily visionless by the blinding glare.
Captain Picard then bashed his combadge. "Transporter chief.... " he said
urgently. "Anything?"
There was a pause, then, "negative, sir. Nothing."
Jean-Luc pushed his lips together. He took a deep breath and
pushed his communicator.
 "Doctor Crusher, how's Data?" 
 "He's bad, Captain. Geordi and I are working on him."
 "Any improvement in his condition?" asked Will, concerned.
 "Not much Commander," said Geordi. "He suffered a considerable amount of
 damage. His chest has been ripped open. I believe with our help and his
 automatic repair systems ...."
 "Geordi," interrupted Jean-Luc, "is there any hope Data can be repaired?"
 " Fortunately his positronic brain was not damaged, but there has been a
 substantial amount of internal damage and he's lost a lot of his chemical
 nutrients."
 "Mr. La Forge, Doctor Crusher, keep us posted."
 "Aye, sir."
Geordi looked at his friend's wounded body. "Please don't die, Data ...."

Later in sickbay ....
 "There .... that should do it."
Geordi finished welding Data's chest. Doctor Crusher looked at him and nodded.
 "I hope so."
The two waited anxiously. Data's eyes opened a few seconds later and he sat
up without effort. He looked down at his chest, then looked up.
 "Geordi?"
Geordi smiled and tapped his combadge.
 "Captain, Data's A-OK."
 "Excellent, Geordi," smiled Jean-Luc. "I'll join you with Commander Riker
 and Counsellor Troi in sickbay."
 "Yes, sir."
Data then looked around.
 "Doctor? .... I am on the Enterprise ...."

Captain Picard arrived in sickbay moments later. Data took a few seconds to
recall what had happened.
 "Data, are you all right?"
There was a moments pause.
 "Yes, Captain, I am fine. All my systems are operating. Where is Lucia?"
Jean-Luc hesitated.
 "Has something happened to her?" asked Data, concerned when he saw the look
 on the captain's face. "Was she not beamed aboard the Enterprise?"
Jean-Luc paused for a while.
 "You were beamed up first, Data," explained Will. "We tried desperately to
 lock onto Lucia, but there was too much interference. We were unable to save
 her ... I'm sorry. ..."
Data paused for a long while.
 "She .... she sacrificed herself for me ...."
Jean-Luc nodded. Neither he, nor Geordi, Will, Deanna or Beverly could
explain the strange look in Data's golden eyes. Neither could Data. He slowly
slid off the biobed and walked towards the exit.
 "She died honourably, Data."
Data turned around and looked at Captain Picard.
 "Yes, Jean-Luc," he said, his voice sincere. "I know that, and I will never
 forget it. I will respect and remember her, always."
Data then left sickbay without saying another word. Deanna watched him go.
 "Captain, I'm sensing ...."
Jean-Luc raised his finger, silencing her.
 "I know, Deanna. So am I."


Back on the bridge, the entire crew had assembled.

 "Lieutenant Commander Lucia Talon has demonstrated extreme value and courage
 in her self sacrifice. We shall remember her, always."
 "We shall remember ...." repeated the entire bridge crew in unison and
 respect.
Jean-Luc then sat down. Ensign Rager at the Conn, looked over at Data.
 "Sorry about Lucia," she said softly, sadly.
A million things flew through Data's head, but all he could do was nod and
say, "me too ...."
Data was confused. He felt Lucia's death was his fault. felt  Guilt? .... am
I feeling guilt? How is this possible? I cannot feel anything ....
Rager was deep in thought about Lucia as well. She barely heard the order
from Captain Picard.
 "Ensign Rager, take us out of the Neutral Zone and lay in a course for the
 nearest Starbase. Proceed on half impulse power."
She did not comply. Captain Picard raised his voice.
 "Ensign Rager .... "
She jerked. "Captain?"
Captain Picard repeated his order.
 "Sorry, sir. I was thinking about Commander Lucia .... Aye, sir.
 Co-ordinates laid in, one half impulse."
 "Engage."

As the Enterprise sailed through space on impulse power, Data 
turned in his chair and stood up.
 "Captain, request permission to return to my quarters."
Jean-Luc nodded. "Granted, Data."
Data left the bridge and entered the turbolift. The doors hissed closed.
 "Deck two."

Data soon arrived at his quarters. He walked inside and looked at his Freedom
painting. He then turned around and saw the tapestry on the ledge. Images of
Lucia flew through his head.


   "Second Officer's Personal Log, Stardate 46240.0:

Data explained in his Log, the times he had with Lucia from beginning to end.
The tragic end.

	... I should have been the one killed, not her. She gave me
	everything she could and understood me better than anyone. Lucia
	loved me and I once again, I was incapable of loving in return. I
	feel so inhibited. Lucia said that I do have emotions, but I don't
	realise it. Is this true? I hope so. I shall remember you, Lucia -
	always." 


Data then picked up his - Lucia's tapestry, left his quarters and slowly
walked into the turbolift.
 "Ten-Forward."

Data reached his destination. The Ten-Forward lounge, normally buzzing with
social excitement was now totally deserted. Not a soul to be seen or heard.
Data slowly walked to the front of the lounge and sat down by the window. He
gazed out at the stars.
 "You okay?" came Guinan's soothing voice.
Data jerked, then turned his head toward her.
 "I did not think anyone would be here."
 "I'm always here, Data."
Data turned his eyes away from her and looked down at Lucia's tapestry and
played with the wool.
 "She was so kind to me ...." he said, softly. "And understood me so well."
Data looked into Guinan's eyes. 
 "It is not fair, Guinan .... Why ...."
 "A lot of things in life are not fair, Data, but we just have to accept
 them."
Data closed his eyes, then opened them and slowly nodded.
 "She did not deserve to die. I did."
 "No you didn't, Data. Lucia loved you very deeply. That's why she chose to
 sacrifice herself. She did it because she wanted to. You life was more
 important to her than her own."
 "I realize that, Guinan and I will always respect her for her sacrifice,
 but...."
 "A thing you are going to have to learn about being human, Data, is
 accepting pain."
Data then realised had advanced further in his never ending struggle to
become human. He wanted to feel happy, but he was not. He had suffered such a
great loss in the process, in a way he felt he was better off before.
 "Thank you, Guinan," he said, grateful for her understanding,
"but I would like to be left alone now."
Guinan gave a small smile and a single nod. She then turned and seemed to
disappear in her flowing clothes behind the Ten-Forward bar.
Data looked down at Lucia's tapestry. He picked up the threaded needle and
began to sew. He was surprised when he saw a small droplet of water on the
tapestry. He wiped his eye, amazed. He was crying. For the first time in his
life. Real tears. Yet, despite this achievement, he was not happy. He then
gazed at the billions of stars outside, and whispered sadly, softly, If I am
capable of love, at all - I love you, Lucia.

------------------------------------------------------------

Tanya "Lore" Dean,
15/11A Cambridge St
Sydney   NSW   2111
AUSTRALIA

Since Tanya does not have direct access to the net
please address any email to:

henry@cerberus.bhpese.oz.au

