From sratliff@rucs2  Thu Apr 21 15:49:09 1994
Status: RO
X-VM-v5-Data: ([nil nil nil nil nil nil nil nil nil]
	["32765" "Thu" "21" "April" "1994" "16:48:36" "-0400" "sratliff@rucs2.sunlab.cs.runet.edu" "sratliff@rucs2.sunlab.cs.runet.edu" nil "632" "Submission to archive: Cadet Cruise" "^From:" nil nil "4" nil "Submission to archive: Cadet Cruise" nil nil]
	nil)
Return-Path:  <sratliff@rucs2>
Received: from rucs2 by depot.cis.ksu.edu SMTP (8.6.7) 
		id PAA14816; Thu, 21 Apr 1994 15:48:46 -0500
Received: from triton.cs.runet.edu (triton.sunlab.cs.runet.edu) by rucs2 (4.1/SMI-4.1)
	id AA03566; Thu, 21 Apr 94 16:48:38 EDT
Message-Id: <9404212048.AA03566@rucs2>
Mime-Version: 1.0
Content-Type: text/plain; charset=US-ASCII
Content-Transfer-Encoding: 7bit
Content-Length: 32765     
From: sratliff@rucs2.sunlab.cs.runet.edu
To: jfy@cis.ksu.edu
Subject: Submission to archive: Cadet Cruise
Date: Thu, 21 Apr 1994 16:48:36 -0400 (EDT)

Mr. Young
	This is my thrid startrek story.  The others reached you via the
regular channels.  However, it appears that outgoing posts are not being
sent out of Radford University.  As the semester is nearing its end I
am sending you the story to place int the archives.

				Sincerely 
				
				Stephen B. Ratliff
  Star Trek                      ________
   The Next Generation    ___---'--------`--..____
    ,-------------------.============================-
    (__________________<|_)   `--.._______..--'
          |   |   ___,--' - _  /
       ,--'   `--'Cadet       |  by Stephen Ratliff
       ~~~~~~~`-._   Cruise   |
                  `-.______,-'   

                        Prologue
                        ~~~~~~~~

        Captain Picard and his daughter were packing to return to the
Enterprise.  It had been a nice vacation at the Picard family vineyard
in Lavar, France.  But now it was time to leave.
        "How many T-shirts did you get in town this month?" Captain
Jean-Luc Picard asked.
        "Four," Marrissa said, displaying them as she packed.  The first
was a white one with the french flag and the Effail Tower on it. The
second one was colored like the Starfleet Command Branch Uniform with
the Words Future Starship Captain across the back and front.  The thrid
was a white one with Golden Gate Bridge on it.  The last was black with
Captain Picard's picture cir. StarDate 42000 and the sky line of the
small village of Lavar and the words I visited Lavar,France,Earth home
of Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
        "Where did you get that one?" Captain Picard said with distaste.
      "The shop next to the Catholic Church," Marrissa Picard said
        "I'll be having a word with Phillipe before I leave," the
Captain said.  "That shirt needs to be sent to file 13."
        Marie Picard poked her head into the room.  "Starfleet Command
called," Marie said. "they want you to call them as soon as possible."

        Captain Picard entered the shuttle he had brought with him on
the front lawn.  He activated a screen and weaved he way though
Starfleet bureaucrats intil the person who wanted to contact him,
Admiral Theresa McGuire, was reached.
        "Captain Picard your orders have been changed," McGuire said.
"You will be commanding a 2 week Cadet Cruise on the Maine starting
stardate 45600."
        "Why the sudden change?" Captain Picard asked.
        "Szustakowski of the Roanoke was to do it but he is dead,"
Admiral McGuire said.  "All of the other people who chould do it are
otherwised engaged in the Cardassian War.  And since the Enterprise
will not be finshed with its upgrade/repairs you are the only Captain
available."
        "Inform the Maine I and my daugher will be aboard at 1200 hours
tommarrow.  Captain Jean-Luc Picard out."

        The Romulan procouncil was debating with Sela over her planned
attack.
        "With the Cardassian war going on the Federation Fleet is
streached out," Sela said.  "I could break though to Vulcan with just
the three ships I own."
        "The Federation fleet has not withdrawn border patrol," The
Procoucil responed.
        "The Chicago, The Stargazer, The Philladephia, it's not a
patrol its a laughing stock," Sela replied.
        "Your plan does have merits," the  Procoucil said after a
pause.  "You may proceed.  But I am assigning The Bloodfire and
Deathwing to your fleet."
        "Thank you," Sela said and walked out of the office
        Immedaitely after the meeting she went home to the Starburst.
Everyone at Romulan Space Command assumed this was to check on her
2 month old triplets.  However, this visit had more to do with talking
to her babies 'Nanny'.

        "The plan is working," Sela began.  "but the procoucil assigned
the Bloodfire and Deathwing to our fleet."
        "Don't worry the plan will suceed," the Nanny replied.

^L
                        Chapter One
                        ~~~~~~~~~~~

Shuttle Garrett approaching USS Maine
An Ambassidor Class Starship

        "May I take her in?" Marrissa asked.
        "You aren't a certified pilot," Captain Jean-Luc Picard said.
        "Check the shuttle's log," Marrissa said.  "Data certified me
on STARDATE 47477."
        "Then take the helm Marrissa," Captain Picard said.  "Shuttle
Garrett to USS Maine."
        Doctor Crushers voice came over the intercom, "Shuttle Garrett
this is the Maine.  Go ahead Garrett."
        "Garrett to Maine," Picard said. "Requesting clearance to land
with Captain."
        "Land in the aft shuttlebay," The doctor replied. "I'll meet
you there, Jean-Luc. Maine out."
        "Plot a course to the aft shuttlebay, Marrissa," the Captain
said.
        "Scenic or Normal?" Marrissa asked.
        "Data gave you a rating of Excellent so lets take the scenic
route," Picard said.
        The shuttle traveled along the underside of the saucer of the
Maine. It neared the Warp Engines and cross behind the dorsal connecting
the saucer section to the stardrive.  The shuttle then drove under the
starboard Warp Engine and circled the pilon until it came in line with
the aft shuttlebay.  While it was doing this Marrissa kept the window
facing the most of ship she chould.  The shuttle easied into the bay
and landed so smoothly that Captain Picard asked when she planned to
touch down 30 seconds after she had.

        Doctor Crusher and Westley Crusher were waiting for them when
they exited the shuttle.  "Welcome aboard Captain," Wesley said.
        "Enjoy your vacation Jean-Luc," Doctor Crusher said.
        "Very much so Beverly," Jean-Luc replied.
        "Did you pilot that shuttle in Captain?" Westly asked.  "The
whole bridge crew was on edge when it went under the Warp Engine."
        "No Marrissa piloted it in," Captain Picard stated.
        "You have got to be kidding." Westly replied.
        "Am I kidding Marrissa?" the Captain asked.
        "No" Marrissa replied.
        "I've got some bad news for you Captain," Dr Crusher said.
"We are the only commissioned Star Fleet Officers aboard."
        "You mean that Starfleet gave me a ship with 750 cadets on board
," Captain Picard said," and only 2 Starfleet officers  and told us to
review them in 14 days."
        "Apparently son," Doctor crusher said. "One things for certain
I'm not crawling though jefferies tubes replacing currcuits and evading
security."
        "Sounds like fun," Marrissa said.
        "Then the job's yours," Captain Picard responded.

The Neutral Zone
STARDATE 47603
USS Chicago

        "5 Romulan Warbird decloaking," the Tactical Officer said.
        "Hail them," Captain Sam Morgan said. "Notify the Border Partol,
Requesting assistance, raise shieds, and go to RED ALERT."
        "The refuse to answer," the officer responed.
        First two then all five fired on the Chicago.  The Chicago
resisted bravely but was destroyed.
^L
                        Chapter Two
                        ~~~~~~~~~~~
        Captain Picard arrived on the bridge.  "Captain on the bridge,"
the tactical offficer said as everyone snapped to attention.
        "Status, Helm," Picard asked.
        "Coarse 128 mark 8 warp 3," Cadet Szustakowski said.
        "Engineering," Picard contined
        "All systems functioning normally," Cadet Crushers voice
filtered up from Engineering.
        "Tactical," Picard inquired.
        "All weapons available with a seconds notice," Cadet Ross
Lochard replied.  "Ship is secure ... no wait power to security systems
is out on decks 3,4,and 5 as are lights on 3,4,5,6,and 7."
        "Ask security to apprehend the person responsable," Captain
Picard said.  "However, phaser usage is forbidden."

        Marrissa Picard was having the time of her life.  Setting traps,
evading security, hiding in cargobays while security passed by; this
excerise was a kid's dream.  She settled down in a crew longue and
picked up a copy of Nancy Drew and the Cumbling Wall.  When Security
Cadets Tanner, Gladstone, and Henderson stopped by looking for the
security breach she was deeply into the book and it took awhile for
them to get her attention
        "Did you see any one go by in the last 5 minutes?" Cadet
Gladstone asked.
        "A red-haired woman in a lab coat pasted by hear a minute ago,"
Marrissa replied.  "She went toward Engineering. If you hurry you might
catch her."
        The three bolted to the door. Marrissa meanwhile visited a
near-by transporter room to insert some curcuits.  Half-way to
Engineering, Cadet Gladstone decided that he better report in,"
Gladstone
to Bridge." Gladstone was enveloped by a transporter beam and
disappeared.
        Cadet Tanner decided she better report this problem to the
bridge and she suffer the same fate.
        Meanwhile Cadet Gladstone had appeared in the brig.  However
he was missing some items, namely a uniform and a communacator.  Moments
later Cadet Tanner joined him.
        Of Coarse Cadet Henderson was not as stupid and took a turbolift
to the bridge.  Via Sickbay, Engineeering, the Computer core, and the
botanical gardens.
        Cadet Henderson arrived on the bridge. Cadet Lochard had been
left in command earlier.  Henderson addressed Cadet Lochard," Sir,
Cadets Tanner and Gladstone disappeared in a transporter beam when
they tried to report in."
        "Computer location of Cadets Tanner and Gladstone?" Ross
inquired.
        "Cadets Tanner and Gladston are on the Bridge," the Computer
replied as the uniforms and communicators of the said cadet appearred
in front of Ross Lochard's feet.  Shortly after the Uniforms appeared
Ross got up to examine them.  He was rewarded by two liters of a clear
red liquid dropping on his head.
        Just then Captain Picard walked in.  "Captain premission to take
the transporters off line," Ross asked.
        "Premission Granted," Captain Picard said.  Then looking at
Lochard's soaked uniform and wet hair he said, "you may also have a
break to clean that strawberry juice from your hair and uniform."
        Tasting the liquid for the first time Ross asked," How did you
know it was strawberry juice?"
        "Lucky guess," Captain Picard said.  To Cadet Henderson who
releaved Lochard at tactical he ordered," Send someone to release the
Cadets from the Brig."

        Five minutes later Cadet Lochard was returning from cleaning up.
On the way back in the turbolift stopped to pick up another passenger.
A blond haired 12 year old girl entered the turbolift and said,
"Bridge."
        "Children are not allowed on the bridge," Ross said.
        "I happen to be an exception," the girl replied.
        "Their are NONE."
        "What was your grade in REG 220?"
        "C- but ...
        "Then I don't think you are the one to tell ME what to do,
Cadet Lochard."
        Lochard was about continue when they arrived on the Bridge.  The
Girl walked out boldly to the Captain.  Lockhard had barely exited the
turbolift when she spoke to the Captain, "Cadet Lochard seems to need
to know regulations 23-4 and 214-2."
        The Cadet at the helm tried to hold in a giggle.  "Cadet
Szustakowski, would you care to inform Cadet Lochard of those
regulations," Captain Picard ordered.  "Please list those personal
aboard the Maine who wrote it."
        "Regulation 23 section 4," Cadet Szustakowski said, "Commanding
Officers of other Starships have the right to be on the bridge of the
ship they are traveling during normal conditions.  Regulation 214
section
2, The Captain of a Kids crew will have all the rights and privledges
of a Commanding Officer visisting a starship."
        "Marrissa is Captain of my Kid's crew," Captain Picard said.
"Now Marrissa is the Space Cadet Helm simulation set up?"
        "Yes, Captain," Marrissa said.  "However Cadet Sowers will be
unable to particapate."
        "You will take her place," Captain Picard said.

The Neutral Zone
StarDate 47603
USS Phoenix

        "Request for assistance from the USS Chicago," Lieutenant
Johnson
said from tactical.  "They are under attack by five Romulan Warbirds."
        "Acknowedge the signal, Go to RED ALERT," Captain George Grant
said. "Lay in a coarse for the Chicago, Maximum Warp."
        "Starfleet Regulation 213 prohibits travel over warp 5," the
Computer said.
        "Override under section 4 of Regulation 213," Captain Grant
said.  "Athorization Grant Alpha One Zero Three."
        "Does the first Officer concure?"
        "Yes authorization Chase Beta Two Four Gamma."
        "Captain the Pittsburgh is reponding as well," Johnson said.
        "Nearing Battle coordinates," The helmsman said.
        "Take us out of warp," Grant replied.
        The Chicago exploded in a brillant white flash, but the
Pheonix's crew had no time to mourn. They were to busy triying to
prevent that from happening to them.  Meanwhile the Pittsburgh
arrived, phasers firing.  However, The Romulans were ready and the
Pittsburgh flashed out of exsistance as 25 torpedoes impacted it.
        "Captain the Philladephia and the Brittain are on their way,"
an ensign informed the Captain.
        'We are going to need them,' Grant thought.
^L
                                Chapter Three
                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Neutral Zone
USS Pheonix

        The Pheonix continued to pound the Romulans.  A few minutes
earlier the Philladelphia and the Brittain had arrived.  The Romulans
consintraited on the weakest of the three, the Britain.
        "Captain the Brittain is lossing life support," Johnson said.
        "Are their shields up?" Grant said.
        "Port side only."
        "Bring us up on the starbroard side and prepare to beam the
crew off."
        "Captain the Warbirds have taken off," Johnson said as the
transports began.
        "@#$%&***@" Grant responded.

Captain's Log  STARDATE 47605.3
StarFleet Cadet Training Vessel USS Maine
Captain Jean-Luc Picard recording

        We have just commpleted the Space Cadet Helm Training Exercise.
The thrid place Cadet was Katherine Szustakowski.  Westly Crusher was
second.  And much to my and the rest of the Cadets Marrissa was First
Place.  The Cadets are asking for a rematch.

        "Incoming message from Starfleet Command, Department of
Operations," Cadet Ross Lochard said."
        "On Screen," Captain Picard said.  Admiral Theresa McGuire
appeared on the viewscreen.  Admiral McGuire believed in close ups so
only her face was seen.
        "Captain Picard," the Chief of Starfleet Operations began, "four
hours ago five Romulan warbirds crossed the Neutral Zone.  They
destroyed the Chicago and Pittsburgh and disabled the Brittain, before
disappearing.  Since we beleive that they are somewhere in federation
space, I am ordering you to Vulcan to protect it.  You will be in
command of all the forces their.  The Excaliber-G under Shelby will
arrive in 20 hours.  The Ambassidor class starships Oregan, Washington,
and California will arrive with skeliton crews in 42 hours.  Admiral
McGuire out."
        "If we are going to be in a potental battle zone it would be
advisable to have a set command chain," Captain Picard said.  "So
Marrissa."
        "Yes Dad," Marrissa replied.
        "As of this Stardate you are first officer of the Maine," Picard
continued.  "Ensign Crusher to the bridge."
        "Captain before you appoint any more people may I ask some
questions of Cadet Lochard?" Marrissa requested.
        "Certainly, Number One."
        "Cadet, who do you think was the person behind the security
drill two days ago?" Marrissa Picard asked.
        "You were," Ross replied.  Looks of astonishment appeared around
the room.
        "How did you decide that," Marrissa asked.
        "It had to be someone Captain Picard knew," Ross said.  "Because
Captain Picard would assign someone who he knew about.  That makes the
suspects, in order of probablity, Dr Crusher, Westly Crusher, Marrissa
Picard, and Kather Szustakowski.  Dr Crusher had an albi.  You IDed the
liquid as Strawberry juice.  You wouldn't know if Katherine liked
strawberry juice.  Westly likes Cherry juice better.  That leaves You."
        "I recommend Ross for security Cheif," Marrissa said.
        "Agreed," Picard said
        Westly Crusher entered the bridge.  "Reporting as ordered sir."
        "Ensign Crusher, You are hearby appointed second offficer and
chief enginer of the Maine," Captain Picard said. "Marrissa update him."

Sela's Warbird
        "Report," The nanny said.
        "We are on coarse to Vulcan as planned," Sela said.  "We have
recieved an encrypted message from Admiral McGuire for you."
        "Thank you."
^L
                                Chapter Four
                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~

USS Maine, Starfleet Cadet Training ship
1600 hours, Beta shift,
Marrissa Picard, first officer in command

        "5 subspace anomalies travel Warp 7 toward Vulcan detected,"
Cadet Henderson said.
        "ETA to Vulcan?" Marrissa asked.
        "5 minutes," was the reply.
        "Helm go to Warp 9.2," First Officer Marrissa Picard said.
"Go to Red Alert.  Captain Picard to the Bridge.  Katherine Szustakowski
to the Bridge."
        "Nearing Vulcan now," Cadet Diral said from the helm.
        "Take us out of Warp, Raise shields and rotate to face the
incoming warbirds," Marrissa said.  "Ready phasers and photon
torpedoes."
        Captain Jean-Luc Picard arrived on the bridge.  "Status, Number
One," he asked.
        "Five Subspace anomolies traveling Warp 7 on a direct coarse for
Vulcan have been spotted," Marrissa said.  "ETA two minutes, sheilds
have been raised and all weapons are prepared."
        Five Romulan Warbirds decloaked in front of the Maine.  "Open
hailing frequencies," Captain Picard said.
        Admiral Saavik appeared on screen. "Greetings Captain," she
said.  Looking puzzled she continued, "Captain Picard I thought you
where on the Enterprise."  A baby cried and Admiral Saavik picked it
up.
        "I thought you were at Starfleet Command," Picard said.  "What
are you doing on a Romulan Warbird in its Nursery."
        "First This vessel and 2 others in this fleet are no longer
property of the Romulan Goverment," Saavik responded.  "Second, my
reason for my present location is to deliver some Romulans seeking
freedom from political opression.  Unfortately We We unable to rid
ourselves of two escorts.  I request that you shot the three center
warbirds in the coordinates I sending, so we may appear disabled, and
then pursue till distruction the flanking Warbirds."
        "Have the coordinates been recieved?" Picard asked. A Cadet
answered yes and Picard continued," I will inform Star Fleet Command
of the situation meanwhile I will proceed with your request.  Picard
out.  Send a Copy to this transmission to Starfleet Command.  Marrissa
if you please."
        "Helm coarse 0 mark 25 full impulse engage on my mark," Marrissa
said.  "Tactical fire phasers on the coordinates We recieved from
Saavik.  Helm engage."
        The Maine shot toward the Romulan wedge of warbirds, firing
phasers.  Disabling the middle three in quick succession with short
blasts to certain spots on the wardbirds.  The Warbirds dimmed but the
outside warbirds turned and began tailing the Maine.
        "Prority One, message for Captain's Eyes only coming in." Cadet
Henderson announced.
        "Can it be delayed," the Captain asked.
        "No sir"
        "I'll take it in the Ready Room," Picard said.  "Number One you
have the bridge, try to keep it cleaner that your room."
        "Aye sir," Marrissa said settling in to the big chair. "Marrissa
to Westly Crusher."
        "Crusher here."
        "Wes can you give me a 10 percent power drop for 30 seconds on
my mark?" Marrissa asked.
        "I can do it on 5 seconds notice," Westly Crusher said from
Engineering.
        "Be ready," Marrissa said turning to Cadet Szustakowski she said
"Kathy take the helm and begin that edvasive pattern that all most
fooled me.  Diral take science One and see if you can get me 12
tropedoes programmed to go though the Romulan sheilds."
        When Katherine had seated he self Marrissa ordered,  "Kathy
change coarse 108 mark 270 engage.  Wes power drop NOW."
        As Marrissa got the word 'NOW' Out of her mouth a Romulan
disrupter made a glancing blow on the Maine's sheilds.  But it took 5
seconds for the Romulans to Resume tailing.
        "Your power drop ends in 3 .. 2 .. 1," Westly Crusher said from
Engineering.
        The Maine sped up and the Romulans did as well (after a 4 second
delay. "Diral are those tropedoes ready?" Marrissa asked.
        "Finished .. Now," Diral replied.
        "Set locks ahead and up 5 degrees," Marrissa said.  "Viping on
my mark Kathy."  The Warbirds closed and began battering the aft
shields.  "NOW."
        The Maine went to full stop and the Romulans shot over it
coming to full stop as well, right in the Maines firing locks.  "Fire
all weapons Mr. Henderson." Marrissa ordered,  "Kathy close in on them."
      The Warbirds began to run as tropedoes hit them though their
shields.  They ran out of the Vulcan system,  It was now time for them
to be chased.  But the Romulans chould have still turned back the tide
of the battle if they tried.  But as they neared the eadge of the system
that became a vain hope for blocking their path was ...

                        The Excalibur

^L
                        Chapter Five
                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~
        Spying the Excaliber in their path the Warbirds split up. The
Maine took the one that went right the Excaliber the left.
        The Excaliber chased its warbird intill the warbird cloaked. The
Maine however was more sucessful.  The torpedoes Diral had perpared
passed though the warbirds shields and slamed into the warp engines
creating a massive explosion the Maine passed though the remains of the
warbird and met the Excaliber on the other side.

        Captain Jean-Luc Picard returned to the bridge after his talk
with Admiral McGuire via codeded channels.  "Status Number One," He
asked.
        "One Romulan Warbird destroyed by us," Marrissa said.  "The
Other has cloaked in the area.  All systems normal.  The Excaliber has
arrived."
        "Hail the Excaliber," Picard ordered turning toward the veiw
screen.
        Captain Shelby appeared on screen. "Captain Shelby of the
USS Excaliber NCC-1703-G reporting as ordered," she said.
        "Captain Shelby you ar going to 'love' our latest orders,"
Picard said.
        "How so?"
        "Those three other warbirds in the system are defectors,"
Picard said.  "We are to depost all but 6 members of their crews on
Vulcan and transport them to Earth ASAP."
        "I hope you have at least one C.O. to send," Shebly said.
"I've only got Commander Adin and Lt.Commander Yarr and bunch of
ensigns on my ship."
        "Personal is a problem," Picard responded. "I'm the only
one here, the Washington, Oregan, and California are skeliton crews with
Lt.s in command, no help there."
        "Is that Marrissa Flores behind you?" Captain Shelby asked.
        "It is but she is now my adopted daugther," Picard replied
        "Put her in command of the Maine," Shebly suggested.  "She may
not have rank but she has more exprience than anyone we are going to
find."
        "Point taken," Picard said. "Prepare boarding parties I'll send
75 cadet to each ship, you supply the rest.  Myself, Adin, and Yarr will
command their crews.  Maine out.  Hail the Romulans."
        "Captain Sela here," Sela said.  "Ready to recieve broarding
parties and beam personal down to deffector processing center on
Vulcan."
        "Have you been listening in?" Picard asked.
        "No but Admiral Saavik has been most informtive," Sela
responded.  "You will notice I am in the process of replacing the
Warbird symbol on all my warbirds with and old symbol from a auto
company known as Pontiac to avoid confusion so beam over when the
symbol in finished in 5 minutes.  I assum as owner I may come with
my ships to Earth."
        "You and 5 others," Picard said.
        "See you in 5. Sela out."

        "Now down to business," Captain Picard said.  "Computer note in
Log.  Per StarFleet orders Stardate 47608 I am now in command of a fleet
consisting of the Maine, Excaliber and three Romulan warbirds.  As such
I am reassigning Command of the USS Maine to Marriss Picard athorization
Picard Omega nine oh one two."
        "Maine now under the command of Marrissa Picard."
        "Captain who are you taking to the Romulan ship from the Command
crew?" Marrissa asked
        "Cadet Westly Crusher."
        "Computer first officer is now Cadet Ross Lochard," Marrissa
said.  "Second officer Cadet Katherine Szustakowski. authorization
Marrissa Beatpveen one eight one two."
        "First Officer now Cadet Ross Lochard, Second Officer now Cadet
Katherine Szustakowski."


 
                        Chapter Six
                        ~~~~~~~~~~~

Cloaked Romulan Warbird Bloodfire
Captain Sardak Commanding
Captain's Log
        The Federation ships Maine and Excaliber have apparently
destroyed the Deathwing and captured the Adventure, The Starburst and
the Exploration.  However they are so short of Commanding officers that
the put a 12 year old GIRL in comand of the Maine.
        The Maine, Excaliber ant the three captured Romulan Warbirds
have toward Earth.  Vulcan is guarded by 3 Ambassitor Class starships so
we are following the Earth bound fleet.  I have choosen to follow 20
meters off the portside of the Maine and slightly above.

        Outside the Romulan vessel, the Earth bound fleet can be seen
clearly.  The Maine is the nearest vessel.  Next comes the three Romulan
vessels.  And finally the Excaliber can be seen on the farside.

USS Maine

        "1200 hours Alpha shift is releaved," Marrissa said.  "Mr.
Lochard, in my ready room."  Various staff enter and exit and Marrissa
Picard and Ross Lochard enter the Ready Room.
        "Mister Lochard what is this I hear about Cadet Tanner's
transfer to the Adventure," Marrissa said as she sat behind the desk.
        "Cadet Tanner wwas still complaining about the present command
structure despite several extra shifts," Ross said.  "I beleived she was
deturmental to moral.  So I sent her to serve under Commander Adin."
        "Your actions were correct but you should have consulted me,"
Marrissa said.  "I as commanding officer I must approve all transfers
remember that in the future.  Please make sure my record is available to
all personal in order to end such decussion."
        Ross returned to the bridge.  "Their is a sensor anomoly off the
portside," Kevin Henderson said.
        "On screen,"  Ross said.  On screen stars streamed by arcing
around as certain spot.  "Inform the Starburst, Captain to the Bridge."
Marrissa entered the bridge.  "I think we have found the missing
Warbird, Captain."
        "Ready one torpedeo set to detonate on impact," Marrissa said.
"10 percent power."
        "Message from the Starburst," A Cadet said,  "If the Anomoly is
the Romulan warbird.  You are to destroy it completely."
        "Fire torpedo."
        A Torpedo arched out of the Maine.  It impacted the Anomoly and
reveled the Warbird.  "Red Alert, All hands to battle stations,"
Marrissa ordered.
        The Bloodfire having decided that hiding would be useless from
this point forward, fired torpedoes toward the Excaliber.  The Maine was
ingored because Captain Sardak beleived the Maine under 12 year-old
Marrissa was not a treat.  He was wrong.
        "Kathy get on their tail," Marrissa said.  "Tactical fire
phasers and photon torpedoes."
        "Nearing Terran System," Katherine Szustakoski said.
        "The Warbird is dropping out of Warp," Cadet Henderson said from
tactical.
        "Following suit," Katherine said from the helm.
        The Bloodfire emerged from warp just short of Neptune.  The
Maine emerged in standard orbit of it.  The Maine came about charging
the Bloodfire.  The Blood fire ingored it again going after the
Exacaliber which had just arrived.  The Maine once agian fired on the
Bloodfire knocking out its shields.  No longer able to ingore the Maine
The Bloodfire fired torpedoes at the Maine.
        "Fire phasers at incoming torpedoes," Marrissa ordered.  "Target
torpedoes at the Warp Engines."
        The Maine's phasers detonated the Romulan Torpedoes just short
of the Maine.  Meanwhile the Maine's torpedoes impacted the Romulan Warp
engines.  The Warbird exploded like fireworks on the fourth of July.
        "Captain," Ross said.
        "Yes, Number One," Marrissa replied.
        "Remind me to never underestimate a Picard," Ross continued.
^L
                                Epilogue
                                ~~~~~~~~
Captain's Log  STARDATE 47613.8
USS Maine
Marrissa Picard Recording
        We have entered earth orbit and most of the crew has beamed back
to the Academy.  Tommarrow my Father and I will be returning to the
Enterprise.  However before we leave we are to attend a press confernce
at Starfleet Headquarters with Admiral McGuire.

        Marrissa Picard, Captain Jean-Luc Picard, Captain Shelby and
Cadets Lochard, Shebly and Crusher, entered the crowded Press Confernce
Room.  Admiral McGuire, the new Starfleet Publicity Chief, was waiting
as were several dozen members of the press.  Around the room questions
were being thrown around, like:  How does a 12 year old get command of a
starship?  How did a Romulan Warbird get so deep into federation space?
and How is Starfleet going to reward young Miss Picard?
        "Gentlemen and Ladies of the Press," Admiral McGuire began, "May
I have your attention please.  I will begin with an anouncement and then
Myself and the other people you see here will answer you questions."
        The Room quieted down as the Admiral began, "As you know 8 days
ago on Stardate 47605, 5 Romulan warbirds breached the Neutral Zone,
destroying the Chicago, the Pittsburgh, and disabling the Brittain.
The ships then proceed to Vulcan.  Once there three ships defected.  The
Remaining to two attacked the USS Maine NCC-17715.   One of them was
destroyed.  The other one eluded us intil yesterday when the Maine
decovered and destroyed it near Neptune.  Captain Jean-Luc Picard was
in command of the Maine when the first one was destroyed,  Marrissa
Picard the second.  However both kills are credited to Marrissa Picard.
        "The second item on my agenda is the rewards for those on the
Maine who served with destinction and great bravrey.  As you know the
Maine is one of four Cadet training ships in Starfleet and the largest
of those.  As such it is crewed by Cadets and a small evaulation group.
As such it is hard to find a reward for those who served so bravely.
However, it has been decided that apon graduation those who were so
noted will serve aboard the ferderation flagship USS Enterprise
NCC-1701-D or her successor.  These cadets are Westly Crusher, Ross
Lochard, Katherine Szustakowski, Kevin Henderson, and Diral Bariel.
        "Starfleet also wishes to reward Marrissa Picard for her actions
in this battle and at Bajor.  It has been decided by the order of the
President of the United Federation of Planets, with the Consent of the
Commanding Admiral of Starfleet to grant Marrissa Amber Picard the rank
of Ensign in Starfleet.  Furthermore, Starfleet Academy has decided to
give her 15 hours of credit in various coarses including Tactics 210
which she cause us to revise fully.
        "In addition to these announcements, Captain Picard has an
additional one, Captain"
        Admiral McGuire yeilded the microphone to Captain Picard.
Admiral McGuire sat down beside Marrissa who had been forced to take a
seat after the last announcement.
        "Ladies and Gentlemen of the Press," Captain Picard began, "It
is my pleasure to annouce today that Starfleet Academy is assigning one
hundred Cadets to the Enterprise as an additional campus to releave over
crowding at Starfleet Academy Sanfransico.  The Cadets will not change
the Enterprises Mission.  Instead they will serve to further deversify
the crew of the Enterprise.  My Command crew will serve as staff and
advisiors for the Cadets semester stay.  Admiral?"
        "We will now take questions," McGuire said.  Hands shot up.
"We will begin with Sir Anthony Eden of the BBC."
        "Admiral Mc Guire, How did the Romulans get though the border
patrol?"
        "The Romulan incursion was a result of the delayed arrival of
the USS Virginia," Admiral Mc Guire said.  "Its absence allowed a
weakness to develop.  The Romulans used this weakness and broke though.
The Virginia as you know was solving the envoriomental crisis on the
Planet Normandy.  Now Brian Rather of World WIde Broadcasting."
        "Admiral Mc Guire or Captain Picard, How does a 12 year old get
command of a starship?"
        Captain Picard looked to Admiral McGuire who nodded.  "As always
Rather either you or Brokaw gets down to the toughest question," Captain
Picard said.  "Marrissa was orignally put in command of the Enterprise
saucer section, as you know on Stardate 47570 due to her Kobayshi Maru
time of 20+ minutes.  This decision was based on the fact we needed a
crew to take the sacuer section away from the area.  The saucer ran into
Gul Ducat's ship on its way to Deep Space Nine and disabled it with out
recieving injury.  As we arrived at DS9 to pick up the saucer the War
was declared and a dozen warships from Cardassia were spotted.  There
was not enough time to releave her so I assigned her to evacuate Deep
Space Nine's civilian population.  Halfway to Bajor Gul Ducat's newly
repaired ship caught up to her and attacked.  Marrissa defeated him
agian.  When we acquired the three warbirds were needed a Commanding
Officer.  There were just four officers for 5 ships, myself, Captain
Shelby, Commander Adin, and Luientant Commander Yarr.  As such I looked
for people with some command exprience, Marrissa had the most of the
people available so she got command of the Maine."
        And so the press confernce continued.

        Captain Picard and Marrissa weering her new uniform with it's
shiney new rank pin, boarded the runabout Rio Grande to return to Deep
Space Nine and the Enterprise.  They were greeted by Major Kira.
"Welcome aboard Captain."
        "If you are here who's in command of Deep Space Nine?" Marrissa
Out of buffer space
        "I had the same question when the Rio Grande arrived," Commander
Sisko said, joining them.  "Apparrently Mr. Data volunteered."
        "Who is the first Officer he will lector this time?" Captain
Picard asked.
        "Constuble Odo," Sisko said. "I didn't think Data had emotions,
let alone a temper."
        "He doesn't," Picard replied, "but he has lectured every first
officer he has had."
        Over the intercom Miles O'Brien announced, "Everyone better get
seated, we take off in one minute."  In a nervous voice he continued,
"Keiko's driving."

                -=-=-=Coming this Fall=-=-=-
                Who Q? Where Q? (tenitive title)

        "I'm here to give your crew a more challenging week," Q said.
        "I've alraeady got a challenging week ahead," The Captain said
"The Naklab system will be more than enough to occup my attention."
        "Oh yes the Naklab system," Q remarked. "I'm sure I can give you
a more interesting time."
        "The Bres, Troac, and Sobians will only negoate with Captain
Picard of the Enterprise as medaitor," the Captain said.
        "Not quite."
        "Captain Picard Reminder," The Computer interupted, "TAC 360
final exam in five minute on holodeck one."
        "You won't be there," Q said.  "In fact no adult will."

        Ensign Marrissa Picard was waiting outside Holodeck One.  The 13
year old waited 10 minutes past the appointed time. nervously tapping
her foot. and then asked the Computer, "Computer locate Captain Jean-Luc
Picard."
        "Captain Jean-Luc Picard is not aboard the Enterprise."
        "Ensign Picard to Commander Riker."
        "Commander Riker is not on board the Enterprise."
        "Computer who is presently in command of the the Enterprise."
        "The Senior officer aboard, Ensign Marrissa Amber Picard."


