Path: maverick.ksu.ksu.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!linac!att!att!cbnewsl!rlt
From: rlt@cbnewsl.att.com (r.l.taylor)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: Cardassian Confrontation
Summary: Here it is!  Parts 1-7
Message-ID: <1991May15.114244.29616@cbnewsl.att.com>
Date: 15 May 91 11:42:44 GMT
Followup-To: rec.arts.startrek
Organization: AT&T Bell Laboratories
Lines: 809

In response to numerous requests for the Cardassian Confrontation, I
asked the original poster to send it to me so I could post it here.
(His site doesn't receive alt.startrek.creative.)  Please refer any
questions, comments, etc. to the address in the .sig.  Enjoy!


The Cardassian Confrontation


Part One
By Dave Learn

     She hung in space like a sleeping eagle.  Proud, ready,
prepared for action.  A thousand thousand braces reached out
to hold her frame in dry dock while lights danced up and
down her exterior.  Newly commissioned, the ship was fitted
and ready for her crew.  In five days, the USS James_Kirk
would launch into unknown space to join her sister ship, the
Enterprise, in exploration.  Since the Borg massacre at Wolf
359, Star Fleet had been desperately short on its fleet.
The James_Kirk, as a new galaxy class starship, would help
to fill this need.
     As the days rolled past on the planet below, the ship
slowly came to life.  Commander Logan, chief engineer of the
James_Kirk poured over every circuit, every panel in the
ship to ensure its function and efficiency.  Only after he
ran diagnostics on all the equipment would he be prepared to
issue his approval for flight.
     Other personnel boarded, preparing their personal
quarters.  Captain T'Starnik watched with Vulcan
anticipation as the crew members loaded their belongings and
civilian families on board.  Soon, she knew, it would be
time to leave, to encounter the unknown.  And, she secretly
hoped, to acquire a reputation for the ship apart from its
legendary name.
     At last preparation concluded; all her crew were
aboard.  She summoned her senior staff to the ready room.
These people would depend on one another for their very
lives over the next years; it was important they know about
one another.
     "Greetings," she said to her crew leaders.  "My name is
T'Starnik.  I have met with each of you, but I felt it best
to present you with the opportunity to meet one another.  I
advise you to do the same with your own departments--it is
essential to know our shipmates as well as possible.  Go
around the table and introduce yourselves.  You can begin,
Number One."
     T'Starnik's first officer spoke up, "I'm Commander
Shelby; I'm the first officer.  My specialty is with the
borg.  I assisted the Enterprise in the recent clash with
the borg in Federation space."
     "I'm Commander Logan, second officer.  I'm the chief of
engineering.  I served on the Enterprise after Commander
Argyl, just after it was commissioned."
     "Ensign Tsu, navigator."
     The huge black man spoke.  "Lieutenant Commander
Gilbert.  Tactical / communications."
     A Deltan male spoke.  "I'm Counselor Thyona Zamber.  No
rank."
     The last crew member to speak was something resembling
a dog, except that it walked on its hind legs and had
fingers on its front paws. Man's best friend, Gilbert mused
to himself.  "I'm Lieutenant Fover, con / ops."
     A tall, erect figure strode in, hands clasped behind
his back. "Greetings, I am Admiral Spock.  Captain, have you
briefed your crew on their mission yet?"
     "No admiral, I have not," T'Starnik replied solemnly.
     "Very well."  The grey-haired Spock turned to the
officers.  "The Cardassians have assembled a small war
fleet, despite the efforts of Captain Picard to prevent such
an occurrence, and have attacked a Federation outpost along
the Federation / Cardassian boundary.  A number of ships
have been deployed along the boundary to prevent further
such incursions.  As yet, there are no galaxy class
starships with them.  This ship is to proceed at maximum
warp to the border and take command of the Federation task
force.  You must convince them to settle on peace."
     "What's your purpose in being here, sir?" Fover asked.
     "My father, the Ambassador Sarek, was the one to
negotiate peace with the Cardassians.  We believe that I may
be successful is restoring the old treaty because of my
relationship to the Ambassador."
     T'Starnik looked at her crew.  "Prepare to leave in
five minutes."

Part Two
By Stephen Luminati

     The behemoth slept inside its metallic cocoon, orbiting
the blue pebble called Earth.  The new Galaxy Class was the
strangest to the eye yet.  It looked incredibly top-heavy,
had an egg roll for a main deflector, and squat nacelles
almost folded underneath the saucer section.  Still, it was
the Federation's newest class of starships... and so far...
the best.
     Inside, the anti-matter powered generators hummed to
life.  Running lights popped up all over the new starship,
and its nacelles illuminated from their dark dormant state
to a vibrant blue.  Following the commands of the tiny life
forms within it, the James_Kirk (oh PLEASE can we change
that name!) began moving under her own power.  The saucer
section was the first to leave the protective shell of the
space dock, and the first to receive Sol's brilliant light.
The yellow star's rays bounced off the gleaming hull in a
thousand directions, as spring water jumps off a rock.
     In moments, she had cleared her womb, and the
Federation's newest baby was flying on its own.  With no
time for a shakedown run, she immediately moved to full
impulse to leave the Sol system as quickly as possible.
     T'Starnik was in the 'hot seat' as it was called,
feeling the comfortable throb of the warp engines building
underneath her.
     Some thirty decks down, Logan glanced over his readouts
and then gave the mighty intermixers a final look over.
"Bridge.  Warp Power at your discretion."
     T'Starnik, being a Vulcan, felt no pride in the
starship's abilities, but nevertheless was impressed.  "Set
course for the Cardassian Border of dispute.  Warp 8."
     Ensign Tsu's fingers danced over the console, and his
four years of training responded immediately, "Course laid
in."
     T'Starnik settled into her chair, "Engage."
     A flashing green button was touched by Tsu's fingertip,
and the starship leaped forward as it created its own
warpspace.
---MSG FROM:  CARDASSIAN SECTOR COMMAND, STARSHIP DOMIN
ENCRIPT: D7-JA-91-23-CRC
SECUR:High    XMIT:26.12.2309
 TO: CARDASSIAN TASK FORCE 12, BATTLE CRUISER BOARSK
COMMANDING
Federation Galaxy Class starship enroute.
Must maintain superiority of sector until main fleet
arrives.
Engage sensor interference fields.
Destruction of new Galaxy Class TOP PRIORITY.
Repeat: Do not allow Galaxy Class to near Cardassian border.
---END MSG #71920472-1293, RCD by BOARSK CONF CRC CHECK/
JA/12/22
     Along the Cardassian Border, a dozen scout ships formed
a near sphere, with the Battle Cruiser Boarsk in the direct
center.  The scout ships began charging their hulls with
enormous amounts of high powered plasma-energy, creating
enough nova-wash and magnetic displacement to confuse even
the best Federation technology had to offer.
     And in the direct center of the sphere, in the highest
vortex of sensor-confusing magnetic energy, the Boarsk
loaded and armed its new forward torpedo launchers.
     She broke out of warpspace deliberately, confidently,
and majestically.  A bright flash of light, a distortion in
gravity readings, and the newest Galaxy Class had arrived
close to the Cardassian border.
     "Sensors now reading a dozen Cardassian scouts
Captain," Gilbert reported from his standing position behind
the captain.
     T'Starnik raised an eyebrow at this.  She expected
heavier resistance than this.  She glanced over at Admiral
Spock, but he was silently observing the main view screen.
     "Tactical," T'Starnik ordered, and the main viewer
showed a pseudo-3d view of the Cardassian formation.
     "I read no weapons or shields on any of the Cardassian
scouts, but I can not ascertain any further information due
to high energy nova-energy and magnetic emissions." Gilbert
reported, his dark hands dancing over the black tiled
controls.
     "We were told to be prepared for their sensor-blocking
technology," Zamber added, "and as far as we can tell, it is
Cardassian custom to play their cards close to their chest,
as humans say."  He smiled at getting the adage correct, to
spite the dire circumstances.
     "Hail the Cardassi, and bring the ship to yellow
alert." T'Starnik ordered.  Star Fleet regulations.  Right
down the line.
     Lt. Fover responded, "All decks report yellow alert."
     "There is no response from the Cardassi," Gilbert
called.
     The Galaxy Class ship edged forward, slowly closing the
gap between it and the Cardassi death trap.
     Inside, the Federation ship was framed beautifully in
targeting acquisition sights.  Six cross hairs lined up
where the initial six volleys would leap to: one to each
nacelle, one to engineering, one to the main deflector, and
one on each side of the saucer section, hopefully disabling
the sensors and bridge.  Once crippled, the rest could be
done with the standard Cardassi technology.  The torpedoes
were on loan from the Romulans, who took a keen interest in
disrupting Federation plans, but not too keen an interest as
to give the Cardassi an abundant supply of the deadly
weapons.
     "Twenty thousand kilometers to formation," Fover
reported, "No response from the Cardassi."
     Spock spoke once, his eyes lighting up with a
conclusion, then immediately darkening in accordance with
Vulcan tradition, "Captain have you ever heard of the
Kobayashi Maru?"
     T'Starnik turned to face the Admiral.
     In the deep coldness of space, the Boarsk's torpedo
tubes silently slid open, the red fires of hell burning
inside.

Part Three
By Ed McDow

     "Captain! Sensors now indicate a Cardassi Battle
Cruiser in the center of the Cardassi formation!" snapped
Gilbert.
     T'Starnik wheeled towards Ensign Tsu. "Raise shields!
Go to Priority One Red Al..." Her command was cut short as
the first of the Boarsks torpedoes slammed into the
starboard side of the James_Kirk (I think James_Kirk was
silly too.). T'Starnik lost her footing and slammed down
onto the floor of the bridge. She clamored back to her feet
as the red alert siren began to wail.
     "Did we get those shields up in time?" T'Starnik
demanded of Tsu. Tsu, visibly shaken from the attack looked
at her blankly.
     "Ensign, did we get our shields up in time?", she
repeated. Something snapped in Tsu. Him fingers rain across
the buttons on his board rapidly. "Major damage to deck
seven. Minor damage being reported on decks five and six,"
he panted.
     "Ready, phasers!"
     "Aye, Captain." Tsu's thin fingers pressed the buttons
that would power up the James_Kirk's phasers.
     "Captain," interrupted Shelby,"sensors indicate
Cardassi vessel preparing to fire again."
     "Phasers ready," shouted Tsu.
     Got to protect starboard, thought T'Starnik. "Ensign,
fire full phasers and take us hard to starboard, on my
command.
     Tsu took a deep breath. "Aye, Captain." So this is what
it's all about, she thought. My first mission on this ship
and it's kill or be killed.
     "Cardassi vessel is firing..... NOW!" barked Shelby.
     "Engage, Mr Tsu," said Captain T'Starnik.
     Tsu licked a bead of sweat from her upper lip and
fired.
     The James_Kirk fired two bolts of phaser energy as the
photon torpedo from the Boarsk barreled down towards her.
Suddenly she turned hard to starboard and the torpedo
exploded harmlessly off of her port side shields.
     "Sensors indicate minimal damage to shields, Captain,"
said a very relieved Ensign Tsu. Tsu saw T'Starnik breathe
what could almost be construed as a sigh of relief. But
then, that would be impossible.
     "Cardassi vessel has taken some damage Captain," said
Shelby. "However because of their cloaking methods I can't
tell how much." She looked up and smiled. "That was one hell
of a shot though. It must have done something.
     The smile that Tsu could not control vanished as
T'Starnik said, "That assumption is not based on one shred
of fact, Number One. Blind assertions will not help us now.
     "Mr. Gilbert, open hailing frequencies."
     "Hailing frequencies open Captain."
     T'Starnik sat down in her chair. "This is Captain
T'Starnik of the United Federation Starship James_Kirk. We
have only come in peace. I repeat we have only come in
peace. We fired when fired upon. We have no wish for this to
escalate into a full scale battle. We merely wish to settle
all disputes between our respective peoples. Please
respond."
     T'Starnik leaned back in her seat. Zamber shifted
uncomfortably. "Captain, they attacked us without
provocation. I see no reason..."
     "Mr. Zamber," she interrupted, "we are on a mission of
peace and we shall take whatever steps necessary to achieve
it."
     "Even if we die in the process?" queried Zamber.
     T'Starnik was about to reply when Gilbert interjected,
"Captain, the Cardassi are responding!" Zamber sat back
chagrined.
     "On screen, Mr. Gilbert."
     As the image on the screen became visible, Tsu stared
in wonder. She had never met a Cardassian but knew some of
their history. They had been very grotesque by humanoid
standards, so grotesque that the first Federation crew to
encounter them reportedly became incurably mad (a legend Tsu
found difficult to believe). The figure on the screen was of
average height and medium build. His skin was mottled,
reminding Tsu of a cantelope.
     "I am Captain Vrym of the Boarsk," said the Cardassi
with a cold tight-lipped smile on his face. "Your vessel
appeared out of no-where with its shields raised. We had no
alternative but to fire."
     "On the contrary, we did not raise our shields until we
detected that you had armed your torpedoes. Even then we
still received some damage."
     Vrym leaned over and began conversing in hushed tones
with one of his crew. He faced the screen again. "There must
be some mistake." Again the smile. "We did not fire until we
detected your shields."
     "This illogical argument is getting us no where," said
T'starnik. "We have come to discuss the terms for a new
treaty. This," she gestured towards the tall Vulcan, "is
Admiral Spock. He is the son of the man who negotiated our
original treaty. We hope that you will come aboard our
vessel in order to discuss the matter.
     Again Vrym conferred with a crew member. He turned back
to the screen. "How do I know that you won't take this
opportunity to attack my ship or detain me?"
     "Captain you have my word that your ship won't be fired
upon nor will you be detained while we are discussing
peace."
     Vrym smiled. "Ah, the word of a Vulcan." He paused. "I
shall beam aboard your vessel with my first officer."
     "Captain Vrym, how can we be assured that you won't
attack us?" demanded T'Starnik.
     "Because Captain," said Vrym with a smile,  "I give you
my word." The screen went blank.
     "Opinions?" asked T'Starnik after a brief moment of
silence.
     "I don't trust him Captain," said Zamber. We don't know
much about these `new' Cardassi, but they haven't yet given
us any reason to trust them.
     "I'm inclined to agree Captain. I know Vulcans  don't
understand human intuition but Vrym's smile... It was
downright creepy." said Commander Shelby with a shiver.
     "But Captain..." Tsu started to say then looked around
self-consciously.
     "Go on Ensign" said T'Starnik.
     "Well, this is a peaceful mission right? So shouldn't
we give them the benefit of the doubt? If we greet them as
if we don't trust them... well... how will they be able to
trust US?"
     No one spoke. The silence was interrupted by the intra-
ship speaker. "Engine to bridge. Engine to bridge."
     T'Starnik slapped a button on the arm of her chair.
"Yes, Mr. Logan."
     "The Cardassians are ready to beam aboard."
     T'Starnik looked at Spock. "Well Admiral it appears
that our `Kobayashi Maru' is developing a new chapter.
     "Mr Logan, beam them up whenever you are ready.
Commander Shelby and Mr. Zamber will accompany Admiral Spock
and myself to the transporter room. Mr. Gilbert, you have
the conn."
     "Aye, Captain." Gilbert could not help but smile
proudly.
     The three officers and the counsellor stepped into the
elevator. "I still don't like this," said Zamber right
before the door slid shut.

Part Four
By Dave Learn

     "Commander Shelby to security," Shelby said as she
tapped her silver communicator pin.
     "Lieutenant Block here, commander.  How can I help
you?" the chief of security asked.
     "I need a squad of security officers in transporter
room three, on the double.  The captain wants a Cardassian
delegation to beam over, but Counsellor Zamber suspects foul
play, and I'm inclined to believe him.  Call it a hunch,"
she replied.
     "We'll be there immediately.  Block out."

                      *   *   *   *   *

     The door to the transporter room opened to reveal a
squad of security officers standing ready with their
phasers.  T'Starnik looked at them disapprovingly.  "By
whose order are you here?" she asked.
     "By mine, captain," Shelby volunteered.  "I don't think
it's a wise idea to let the Cardassi on without being
prepared for hostilities. It's not safe.  These people have
already destroyed a Federation outpost."  As Shelby spoke,
her agitation continued to grow.  It became very clear to
T'Starnik that her relationship with her first officer would
need some fine tuning.
     "Why did you not inform me of this decision,
commander?"
     "You never gave me a chance."
     "This distrust is not logical.  The Cardassian captain
gave us his word."
     "The Cardassian rulers gave us their words that we had
peace!  Look what their word means!  They've destroyed a
Federation outpost, amassed a war fleet, they fired on the
James_Kirk without provocation . . . How much evidence do
you need?"
     "Captain," Zamber interrupted before Shelby lost her
famous temper, "I think the commander's got a point.  There
was an incident not long ago when the Enterprise discovered
the Cardassi were hatching a plot to invade the Federation.
We're seeing some of the fruit of that now.  We can't just
let them on board a starship without being prepared."
     T'Starnik looked at her two bridge crew members, a
stoic look set on her features, wondering that they would
react like this.  Humans . . . they were so illogical.  She
gazed at the security guards, armed with phasers who were
waiting patiently for an order to dismiss or ready
themselves for the Cardassian away team.  She turned
momentarily to Spock.  Logically, since he had more
experience with humans, he could offer her advice on how to
resolve this difficulty.  He returned her gaze, but said
nothing.  She turned to Logan, who glared at her, impatient
at the delay, resenting being called from engineering for
something as mundane as a transporter job.  At last she
spoke.  "Very well, but we must discuss this later,
commander.  Beam them aboard, Commander Logan."
     The transporter shimmered as four figures coalesced,
phasers drawn. "A trick!" Block realized and ordered his
three men to spread out. The Cardassians, looking for all
the galaxy like armored human grapefruit, solidified, and
fired.

                      *   *   *   *   *

     Gilbert sat uneasily in the command chair.  Proud that
he was entrusted with the command on only his first day
aboard, he remained nervous about the Cardassian ship which
hung nose to nose with the James_Kirk.  He grinned as he
heard Lieutenant Fover growl uneasily; he wasn't the only
one uncomfortable with the other ship's brooding presence.
     "Mister Fover, keep an eye on the Cardassian vessel.
Let me know the minute anything changes in her status."
     "Aye sir," the canoid woofed.
     "Commander," the lithe Tsu spoke up, her voice shaking.
"Sensors detect a small fleet of ships approaching at warp
four.  They'll be here within six hours."

Part Five
By Rob Kamm

     "Captain T'Starnik to sickbay.  Transporter room three,
two security guards and three xenomorphs down.  Send a
medical team immediately."
     The captain made the report as in a daze.  What had
gone wrong she wondered.  Where had Spock gotten the phaser
from so fast and why had a Vulcan become so proficient with
the weapon.  She stood staring at the Admiral.  He on the
other hand was on his hands and knees next to one of the two
wounded security guards--the one that was missing her leg.
     The USS _James_Kirk_'s sickbay burst into a sudden
flurry of action and excitement.  A pair of doctors ran out
of the room grabbing medical kits as they left.  In the
CMO's lab a furry head rose from under an electron
microscope's hood, shook slowly for an instant and was then
followed by the remainder of Commander M'Roounths body as
she hurled herself out of the lab, snatching a medkit as she
left.
     The doors to sickbay had barely shut from the first two
doctors when they opened again for the growling Commander.
She just barely squeezed her body through the opening doors
in her hurry to get to a turbolift. Her speed was so great,
primarily because she had been running for years on the All-
S'Cleen track team.  The three doctors clambered into the
turbolift, each trying to mentally prepare themselves for
what they were about to face.
     "You twooo loook at the ssecuritee guardss, I willl
tend to thee xxenomorphsss."  The Caitians growled to her
two underlings.
     Then the door opened and they ran off to the
transporter room.
     "Admiral, would you please explain to me why you carry
a type I phaser with you on a Federation starship?"  Captain
T'Starnik asked as she began to recover from the shock of
witnessing the violence that had so suddenly burst out in
front of her.
     Spock didn't look up from the wounded woman, it was all
that he could do to keep the stump of her leg from pouring
even more blood into the room's carpeting.  Another security
guard had tried to help the other wounded man.
Unfortunately the damage of a near miss by a Cardassian
disrupter on his chest was too much.  He died even as the
door to the transporter room opened to admit the doctors.
     Spock stood up as a doctor relieved him and turned to
T'Starnik.
     "Captain, one of the first things that you will learn
out here in space is that not carrying a weapon is
illogical.  Total adherence to non-violence costs more lives
in the end.  The trick, as humans put it, is to know when to
resort to violence but how to avoid it."
     T'Starnik stared at the older Vulcan for a moment.  She
then decided that she was better off meditating and getting
rid of the emotions welling up inside of her than remaining
with the perplexing situation. She left, calling over her
shoulder to Shelby, "You have command for a while Commander
Shelby."
     Spock watched as the Captain left.  Decided that she
needed some time and that he would speak with her later he
returned to watch the doctors at work.  The two humans went
to the woman whose leg had been cut off when a lucky shot
blew up the main power cable to the transporter, the cover
panel was thrown off and severed her leg.  The disembodied
limb lay on the far side of the chamber--too far burned to
be reattached.
     The CMO, Spock noticed, had gone directly to the fallen
Cardassians to see to their injuries.  As he had only used a
heavy stun setting they would be fine, a bit hung-over but
healthy, in a few hours.  She saw this and signalled for
some of the security officers that they were theirs--to be
taken to the brig.  She then got up and left the room.
     In the corridor outside the doctor had started to walk
to the turbolift.  Spock followed her out, paused for a
moment and then called to her.
     "Are you going to prepare sickbay for the wounded,
Doctor?"
     She paused for a second.  M'Roounths had been planning
on going to a holodeck for a long run--and the chance to
think things out.  The orderlies, nurses and other doctors
were already getting sickbay set. "NOOO!," she growled as
she started for the lift again.
     "Doctor, is it not your job to do that?"  Spock had
left the trans-porter room and was standing a few meters
from the door.  He seemed to fill the corridor where he
stood.
     "Mmy job, Admirall, wass to catalog wholle neeww
pllanets full of llife.  Mmy job iss to mmaintainn the
healthhh of thhe commplimmennt annd crew of thisss sship.
Mmy job iss nnot too cleann up afffter thhe captainn
messsess up and killss memmberss of that creww."
     "Perhaps you are right, Doctor.  Perhaps your people
can keep that woman alive, and eventually she may even walk
on a prosthetic leg.  But she will need to adjust to that
change.  Just as you must make the adjustment from one type
of medical service to another.  You must do as all beings
do--do your best according to your gifts."
     The Vulcan then turned and reentered the transporter
room-battle zone, leaving the CMO to her own thoughts.  She
hesitated in the hall for a moment, shook her furry head and
entered the turbolift.
     "Ssickbay.  Mmedicall Emmergenncee."


Part Six
By Dave Learn

"Zamber, come with me to the bridge.  I'm going to need your
guidance in dealing with the Cardassi," Shelby said as she
turned to leave the embattled transporter room.

"Coming ma'am," the Deltan counselor spoke.  The two of them
stepped out into the corridor and headed toward the
turbolift.  He looked at the elderly admiral, who now
returned to the transporter room and then down the corridor
to the feline M'Roounths who meekly stepped into the
turbolift.  What was that all about?  The two had apparently
had some sort of confrontation.  He knew of the Catian
dislike for violence of any sort.  The chief medical officer
was probably annoyed with the captain for what she saw as
T'Starnik's failure.  He made a mental note to meet with
M'Roouths later.

The two of them stepped into a turbolift car.  "State
destination, please," the computer prompted.  Shelby looked
straight ahead as she replied, "Bridge."  She turned to face
the counselor, "Zamber, your analysis of what just
happened."

Zamber considered and thoughtfully rubbed his dark beard.
"The Cardassi are uncertain in how to deal with us.  When
brute force failed to destroy the James_Kirk, they thought
they could overcome us through guile.  Captain Vrym counted
on the captain's gullibility and hoped to eliminate the
upper part of the command chain.  I doubt takeover was
intended--four Cardassi, even armed with phaser rifles,
can't hope to capture a galaxy class starship.  All they
could do was eliminate the captain, yourself, and the other
personnel in the transporter room.  Your requesting
security, and Admiral Spock's coming armed was unexpected
and gave us the advantage we needed.  My recommendation is
that you take a strong stance with them.  They'll respect
force, but you have to do what you threaten, or you'll lose
all credibility with them."

"Thank you, Counselor," Shelby said as the lift came to a
stop and they entered the bridge.  "I think that could prove
useful."  She turned to face Gilbert, who rose to relinquish
the command chair.  "Mister Gilbert, any changes?"

"Yes, commander.  Long range sensors detect a fleet of
Cardassi vessels approaching at warp speed.  They'll be here
in four hours."  He paused uncertainly.  "How did the
reception go?"

"It was an ambush.  One security guard is dead, another
disabled.  Every  one else is fine.  You said there's more
Cardassi coming?"  Gilbert  nodded.  "Patch me through to
the Boarsk.  I want to speak with Captain Vrym."

                        *   *   *   *

Vrym sat in the center of the bridge, the command chair
elevated just above the rest of the bridge crew, enabling
him to see all that happened  on his bridge.  He drummed his
fingers nervously on the armrest.  Had his ploy worked?  He
had expected his squad to report back immediately once they
had executed the captain of the Federation vessel and any
other officers who received his "peace delegation."  Their
silence indicated that they had failed and the aliens had
overcome his ruse.

His communications officer spun in his chair.  "Captain," he
said, "the James_Kirk is hailing us."

"On screen."

The screen changed to show the interior of the James_Kirk as
Commander Shelby spoke to his image on her own screen.
Captain T'Starnik was  nowhere to be seen.  Good.  The
boarding party was not a complete failure.

"Captain Vrym," she began hotly, "I *demand* to know why you
have betrayed our trust like this.  The agreement was to
discuss peace."

"We have had our discussion."

"Your presence here is in violation of the
Federation-Cardassi Border Treaty, and your actions are
actions of war.  Retreat or we will be  forced to open fire
on your ship."

Vrym shifted in his sit uncomfortably.  This human would not
duped as easily as her late Vulcan captain had been.

"Really.  And what makes you hope that your starship will be
able to defeat a Cardassian Battle Cruiser?"  He wondered at
his own words.  What made him hope he could defeat a
Federation galaxy starship?  He hadn't a chance.

"I'm not hear to discuss weaponry.  Withdraw or we will open
fire."

Vrym turned to his communications officer.  "Cut
communications."

                        *   *   *   *

"Well?" Shelby asked.

"The Boarsk is arming their torpedoes," Tsu responded
quickly.

"Lieutenant Gilbert, lock phasers and prepare to fire,"
Shelby said quickly.  "Try to take out their engines.
Ensign Tsu, prepare  for evasive."

Like a steely sunrise, the James_Kirk rose above the Boarsk,
her deadly sunlight shooting out in a powerful burst of
phaser fire.  The blast hit  the Boarsk's shields, knocking
them down to what was unbearably low for Vrym's preference.

No longer hanging nose to nose with the James_Kirk, the
Boarsk ducked, throwing itself forward.  It spun itself
around,  firing three Romulan torpedoes at the Federation
ship.

Miss.

Miss.

HIT!  The James_Kirk rocked slightly under the blow to
engineering,  her crew moving rapidly to repair the moderate
damage.  Commander Logan cursed the incompetency of the
bridge crew and swore to speak his mind to whoever in charge
once they got through this.

The James_Kirk turned again, her impulse engines roaring
silently in the  vacuum of space.  She fired her phasers
again, scoring a final hit on the Boarsk's engines.  The
Boarsk grew still and fired another volley of  torpedoes.

"Hang on!" Shelby shouted as the torpedo rushed toward the
saucer section.  The deck vibrated, throwing crew to the
floor.  "Gilbert!" she  shouted.  "I want their weapons out
of commission, do you hear me?"  Gilbert nodded grimly and
aimed the weapons.

Three photon torpedoes flew from their homes, nesting
themselves in the battlecruiser's hull. One of the
scoutships intercepted a torpedo and detonated brilliantly
in a flash of light.  The Boarsk rocked violently at the
arrival of the torpedoes.

Vrym locked across the ruins of his bridge.  His own ship
was destroyed,  but he knew the James_Kirk would not be far
behind.  A fleet of Cardassian vessels was approaching, he
knew, and they would easily overpower the lone starship.

The steady whistle of equipment drew his attention.  Why did
it always seem that the last piece of equipment to fail was
the communications console?  It was the James_Kirk,
signalling him.

"Captain, shall I put them on screen?" asked Kerton, his
communications officer.  Vrym nodded.  Commander Shelby
appeared, as before.

"Well, Captain Vrym," she asked, "shall we continue this or
would you like to surrender?"

"Please, no.  We yield," he said with a heavy air of
finality.

                        *   *   *   *

"Mister Gilbert, prepare an away team to board the Cardassi
ship.  You will help with the wounded and repair the ship to
escort them back to Cardassian territory.  Admiral Spock
will accompany you to negotiate peace," Shelby said.

Gilbert looked dumbfounded.  "But why?"

"There's an old proverb my mother taught me when I was
little.  It says `When your enemy is hungry, feed him.  When
he is thirsty, give him  something to drink.  In doing this,
you will pour burning coals on his head.'  The best way to
make an ally is to help an enemy during her greatest need.
You have your orders."


Part Seven
by Dave Learn

T'Starnik sought to empty her mind of the emotional storm which had
arisen in her.  She sat crosslegged on the floor as she meditated,
assuming a position developed by both eastern mystics on Earth and by
the Vulcans.  This similarity crossed her mind momentarily; she ignored
the distraction it presented her, preferring instead to meditate on the
difficult situation she found herself in.

As she meditated, she remembered . . .

The elderly Terran approached her with the discomfort common to humans
as they encountered Vulcans.  Even the upper echelon of Star Fleet, she
realized, were not immune to this misconception of Vulcan mysticism.
She raised her right hand in the Vulcan salute, hoping to set the aged
admiral at ease.

"Live long and prosper, Admiral Quinn," she intoned.

"Uh, thank you, captain," he replied nervously.  He fumbled for the
proper reply, raising his own hand but somehow managing to join his
middle two fingers together.  "Peace and long life," he returned, eyeing
his miserable attempt at the Vulcan sign.  Were she human, T'Starnik
might have smiled at his awkward salute, but she was not.  And Vulcans
did not show amusement.

She watched the admiral closely, waiting for him to state his business.
Apparently the admiral was a little unused to dealing with Vulcans, and
he continued on, obviously flustered.

"T'Starnik, I assume you are aware of the current condition of Star
Fleet?"

"Yes, admiral, I am."

"Ever since the Borg Massacre at Wolf 359, the fleet has been a mess.
We lost forty starships there to one invader, and I don't need to go
into how many excellent men and women who died there.  We have to
rebuild the fleet as soon as possible--before the Romulans or the Car-
dassians see a weakness in our defenses."

"That is only logical, admiral.  How does the Intrepid fit in with these
plans to rebuild?"

"Captain," the admiral began, "we have a new galaxy class starship
almost completed.  We offered commander to the Enterprise's William
Riker, but he turned it down for whatever reasons he has.  The ship is
called the James_Kirk.  If you want her, she's yours."

A human or one of the other races of the Federation might have taken
offense at being the second choice.  T'Starnik, a Vulcan, felt none.
"This offer is most illogical," she replied.  "The Intrepid is a Vulcan
science vessel.  It is more logical for me to continue to command it
than to command a ship staffed primarily by humans.  I have never worked
with them."

The admiral licked his lips nervously.  He knew this would be the hard
part.  "Captain," he said carefully, measuring his words, "we are aware
that you have little experience with humans, and that the James_Kirk
would be a difficult command for you.  But you have an excellent service
record, and we need to have the best captains possible on the best ships
possible.  In a year or two, maybe we can afford to have someone with
your talent on a ship like the Intrepid again.  But right now, we just
can't squander that ability.  We need a capable captain for the
James_Kirk, and we think you would be the best choice.

"We realized that you would feel uncomfortable commanding a human crew,
so we've arranged for Commander Shelby to be your first officer.  She's
aggressive, and she'll help to mediate between you and the crew with
whatever difficulties you might encounter.  She can be the counter-
balance for your logic, much in the same way that Captain Kirk and
Commander Spock balanced one another seventy years ago."

T'Starnik considered the offer and weighed the advantages and disadvan-
tages to the command.  "Each must do his best, according to his gifts,"
Surak wrote.  Star Fleet needed her gifts on the James_Kirk.  Very well.
she would serve where she was needed.  She accepted the transfer, her
own first officer being promoted to captain of the Intrepid.

She broke from her reverie, ending her silent meditation.  Her logic had
been flawed, she realized now, and she should serve as captain of the
James_Kirk.  While she was well suited to commanding a research vessel
such as the Intrepid, the James_Kirk was clearly not a vessel she could
command adequately.

Her duty was clear.  She left her room and headed to the bridge.  She
would rely on Commander Shelby more heavily for now, particularly to
resolve the conflict with the Cardassi.  She would notify Star Fleet of
her decision and continue to serve as captain until a replacement could
be found.

                //-n-\\                   Don Quixote
        _____---=======---_____           Klingons for Christ
    ====____\   /.. ..\   /____====
  //         ---\__O__/---         \\     dl20@lafayacs.bitnet
  \_\                             /_/     learnd@lafcol.uucp
                                          _learnd@lafayett.bitnet
"Nobody knows the tribbles I've seen . . ."

 