-*- Posted by Lawrence Wright, Sysop of Silicon Heaven BBS
-*- 10pm -> 6.30am GMT on +44 (0) 626 834331



DERELICT 
by P.D Hubbard.


Part 1.

Cast a eye into the heavens and you can see for years, yes,
years.  When you view into space, you are looking back in time
to the past.  A star maybe six thousand light years away but you
are seeing that star as it was six thousand years ago.  A the
moment you view it, it may not be in existence, snuffed out in
the nuclear heat of a Supernova or just shrinking away, boiling
a bit of itself off into space, getting smaller and smaller until
it just winks out.

The early explorers of space realised this.  Time was the enemy. 
Time would always catch up with you in the end.  Hypersleep would
offset the effects of the ravages of time but you could never
beat it.  Old father time moves on in his relentless march.

A man, a native of Earth, gave the answer.  By warping the very
fabric of space, time and space could be sidestepped.  Vast
galactic stretches of space were for the offing.  Many years
after this discovery, vast Starliners cruised the spacelanes with
the rich and wealthy on board.  On the other side of the coin,
there were losses.  A starship might go  off on a mission, never
to return.  In a few cases, the fate of the starships was known
but in most cases, they just disappeared into the night of space,
almost as if a enraged time, cheated of his prey for so long, had
exacted his revenge.  But, as technology improved, the losses
diminished and man expanded across the galaxy.




The USS Enterprise, NCC1701D, cruised the eternal night.  A
Galaxy class Starship, she was the latest vessel to ply the
starways.  Packed with the best equipment that the Federation had
to offer and a Warp drive with enough power to light a small
country, she was a tough prospect to tackle.  True, they had
nearly come to grief in a Borg encounter at system J25 and had
the scars to show, she was still the best, a formidable ship, and
the flagship of the United Federation of Planets.

In Ten Forward, the senior officers and many junior staff were
indulging in a spot of light relaxation.  Music was on the menu
tonight and Lieutenant Commander Data was doing his best to
please them with a rendition of Tocata and Fuge, played in D
minor.  Data, being a Android, was as usual, perfect, never
bumming a note.  If he did, he would want to know why.  
With a final flourish, the music was brought to its conclusion.
The audience was most appreciative, and Data, if he was Human,
would have lapped it up.  Being Data however, and with no ego to
flaunt, this never happened.  Stepping off the stage, he
approached the senior officers.

Picard turned and addressed Data.  'Mr Data.....Congratulations,
and if I may say, a most unusual choice of music'.

'Thank you Sir' replied Data.  'Actually, I have Mr LaForge to
thank.  As part of my studies into the Human condition, he has
been providing me with films from the latter part of the
twentieth century.  In a attempt into helping me discover what
scares people, I have been watching films from The Pit And The
Pendulum thought to the latter, so called splurge movies of the
chainsaw variety.  I find the latter most worrying'.

'I agree with you totally Mr Data.  I remember seeing that movie
for the first time whilst on a psychology course at the Academy
in a insight into 20th century values.  Thank god we grew out of
them.  Where did you get the piece from?'.

Data mused for a few moments.  'The piece in question has no
generic film as a basis.  However, it is usually connected with
a actor called Vincent Price, a real master of his profession. 
He most of his films, he played the Organ with a great relish'.

'Data' cut in Troi, 'its a good thing you are hooked on music and
not the films.  I would hate to think what you could conjure up
on a Holodeck.....'.

'That is not a worry Councillor, I am now exploring the
metamorphosis of classical music into classical rock.  I find the
musical variety of John Williams and Tom Parkes
most...intriguing'.

'A good choice Data,' answered Picard, 'I found that music to be
inspirational.  Re-mastering classical music to a high tempo beat
may be considered sacrilege by some but, tastes vary'.

At that moment, the comms system chimed and the, decidedly gruff
voice of Lieutenant Worf filters over.

'All senior officers to the Bridge.  I repeat, ALL senior
officers to the Bridge, Worf out'.

'Oh well,' exclaims Riker, 'that's the end of our quite evenings
entertainment.....'.

And with that, they filter out of Ten Forward...



End of Part 1
Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!pipex!sunic!trane.uninett.no!eunet.no!nuug!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: TNG Story: Derelict (Part 2)
Date: 14 May 1994 07:42:28 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
Lines: 253
Message-ID: <2r2kg4$ks0@nyx10.cs.du.edu>




DERELICT 
by P.D Hubbard.


Part 2.


The Turbolift doors parted to reveal Picard, Troi, Riker and
Data.  Emerging, they part to their designated stations.

'Status Mr Worf' starts Picard.

'All systems are nominal Sir.  My apologies for dragging you from
the concert but long range sensors have detected a object ahead
of us in space, 3 light years distant.  It appears to lay in the
general direction of the gravitational fluxes that Starfleet
Command ordered us to investigate.  The object is drifting
towards us from uncharted space and refuses to answer all hails'.

'Hmmmmmmmm' muses Picard, now on his seat.  'Mr Data, any
additional information?'.

Data consults his sensor spread on the control panel and comes
to a conclusion.  'Very little Sir, however, the Gravitational
fluxes appear to be centred on the object and are moving in
unison with it'.

'We are not going to find anything out loitering around
here....plot a intercept course, Warp 4.   Engage'.

And with that, the Enterprise sped on her way.

                         _______________


'We are within short sensor range of the object Captain' said
Data.

'Slow to quarter impulse and close the distance' replied Picard.

The Enterprise dropped out of Warp and as she did so, was shaken
by a large Gravitational pulse.  Ahead of the Enterprise lay the
object, a Stellarford Starliner.  Apart from a hole in the
engineering section and a half stripped warp  drive, she was in
good shape. 

'That was nasty!!!!' exclaimed Riker, 'A lot stronger than the
pulses we have been monitoring.  Damage report.....'

Worf studied his panel.  'No damage to report Sir, however,
sensors indicate that the pulse was ten thousand times stronger
than originally estimated and is centred exactly on the object
ahead...........Sensors have picked up a faint signal.....'

Picard cut in.  'Mr Data, sensor sweep'

'Vessel is, according to sensors, the SL Doradus, a Stellarford
class starliner.  Second generation Warp drive, standard
complement 2000.  The engineering section appears to have
suffered explosive decompression.  Passenger compartment is
intact.  No life forms present'.

'Atmosphere?????'

'Atmospheric pressure reads 420 millibar, 7% Oxygen, 5% Humidity. 
Non life sustaining Sir but a away team equipped with environment
suits would be able to beam over'.

'SL Doradus' said Riker, 'She went missing over two hundred years
ago.  How the hell did she end up out here?'

'Unknown number 1' replied Picard, 'but there she is.  Take a
away team and get over there.  I want answers.  Mr Worf, send a
subspace message to Starfleet Command, encoded channel, informing
them of our find....'.  Worf acknowledged that the message was
on its way.

Riker stood up.  'Data, Worf, with me.....Riker to LaForge....'

'Laforge here.  What can I do for you commander???'

'How do you fancy having a look around a Stellarford class
starliner?.....'

'Fancy, Id give my right arm' came the reply.  'Just give me a
few minutes to get some tools together and Ill be on my way. 
LaForge out'.  The comm channel closes.

With that, Riker, Data and Worf exit the bridge, mindful, and a
little fearful of what they might find over on the derelict ship.


                         _______________


On board the Doradus, four energy beams coalesced into the forms
of the Enterprise away team, outfitted in full EVA suits. 
Pulling out his vacuum armoured tricorder, Riker began to scan
the surroundings.  Several inches of dust littered all of the
surfaces, including the floor.  A few emergency bulkhead lights
emitted a feeble red glow.  The signs were not too encouraging.

Riker came to a decision.
'Data, Geordi, head for engineering, see what you can find out
about the propulsion and life support status.  Worf and myself
will be heading for the bridge.  Keep the communications channels
open at all times, these ships are so big you can easily get
lost'.

Data and Geordi shuffled off to the aft of the ship.  Geordi was
in awe of the ship.  He had read about the old Stellarford liners
and their opulence.  Data could not appreciate this.  It was not
his fault, his creator had covered almost every contingency but
awe was not one of them.

Geordi decided to cut the ice.  'You know Data, these Starliners
were the best of their kind when launched.  Only the Declaration
class came anything near them and Stellarford ships were the
replacement for them.  They don't make these like they used
to...'

'I fail to see what you are so enthusiastic about' replied Data. 
'A ship is a ship, regardless of age or construction'.

'Aww Data, you just don't have a eye for these things.  Here we
are, engineering......That's strange, the door has been welded
shut with a cromite torch, take hours to open it.......Data ,
give me that power pack, Ill try and power the monitors to see
what's on the other side of the door....'

Five minutes of struggling and adjustment was rewarded with a
view of then interior of the engineering deck.  A large hole was
visible in the bulkhead wall backing out onto space.  Something,
maybe a large meteor, had gone bowling through, destroying the
warp pile and auxiliary equipment.  The remains of a body lay
littered on the deck, evident sign of the wrath of explosive
decompression.  The body had the insignia of the chief engineer
on what was left of his chest.  Geordi looked visibly upset,
thinking to himself that that could have been him, in another
place, another time.  Time had stopped for the remains of this
poor man.

Geordi finally found his voice.  'C,mon Data, we've see enough
here, better head for the bridge area and see what the commander
has found'.


                         ____________



Up on the Bridge, Riker looked puzzled.  Every thing was
untouched.  Dust covered the desks, seats and floor but all
systems were shutdown, almost as if the last man out had turned
out the lights when leaving.  They only thing required to run
everything was power and power was the one thing they didn't
have.

'That's odd' muses Riker,  'All of the systems are in order but
where are the crew?  Anything over there Worf?'.

'No Sir, all is in order but without power we cannot access any
of the primary systems or read the log....'.

At that moment, Data and Geordi entered the bridge area.

'Mr LaForge, find anything????' said Riker

'Yup, there is a hole in engineering you could fly a shuttle
through.  The control systems for the warp pile are so much junk. 
The warp pile is intact but without control systems, nothing will
work.  Most of the fusion reactors are depleted and the body of
the Chief engineer is laying on the floor of engineering in a
million pieces.  She's in one hell of a mess.......'

Data cut it.  'Someone has welded the entrance hatch to
engineering, presumably they had a air leak and welded it to keep
what little atmosphere they had in.  We passed the log bouy
launcher on the way here.  It is missing from the launch cradle
and I can only assume that it was launched with intention'.

Riker mulled over this information for a few moments then came
to a decision.  'Geordi, see if you can get that fusion power
pack wired up to these systems so we can get some power to access
the files on the master computer.  I think I saw a power terminal
point over by the entrance hatch, give him a hand Data'.

Geordi and Data spent several minutes working on a patch to
supply power.  Since the ship had been launched, technology had
advanced and getting the fusion pack to mate to the main busbar
was, at best, frustrating.  Finally, Geordi threw a switch. 
Minimal lighting came on, the computer system lit up and the helm
and navigation systems came on line.  Almost immediately, Worf
spotted something out of place.

'Sir' started Worf, 'according to this system report, all the
lifeboats are intact and in their launch berths........If this
is the case, where are the crew and passengers????'

'Lets see what the log has to say' replied Riker.

A small screen cleared, revealing the face of a man, dishevelled
looking.  The log began to replay.

'Captains log, SL Doradus.  George S Marshall recording......
It has now been three weeks since the bolide hit the engineering
section.  What is left of the engineering control systems are
inaccessible due to that fact that the impact jammed the
engineering hatch.  I had to order it sealed due to air loss
through the damaged gaskets, and seal in the body of my chief
engineer, Mr Douglas.  May the record show that T.S Douglas gave
his life in a attempt to shut down the warp drive systems.  The
shields that were covering the hull breach failed and the chief
engineer was caught.  He will be sorely missed.

The warp drive unit is stuck on full power and we are currently
heading out of explored space on full warp.  All attempts to shut
the warp drive system down have failed, we just can't get back
into the engineering section.  Our only hope is that the fuel
reserves are nearly depleted and the engineering computer will
shut down the drive when the fuel has run out.  With this in
mind, I have ordered that the Doradus be turned on a Parabolic
course so that our bodies will someday return to Federation
territory.  God save our souls.  Marshall out.'

The screen changed to a further message, dated a week later.

'Captains log, SL Doradus.  George S Marshall recording......
The fuel finally run out on the warp drive and the system has
shut down.  We have wrestled the Doradus onto a return course but
, due to the fact that we have limited thruster power, will take
three hundred years for the return transit.  We however, will not
wait.  One of our passengers, a theoretical scientist, has
devised a way to open a portal into subspace as a escape route. 
I have personally seen the new land on the other side.  It will
serve us well.  This is my last message as captain, tomorrow we
set out for the new land.  Marshall out.'


'We'll, at least we know now how they got away' mused Riker. 
'We'll have a quick look around and beam back to the Enterprise'.

Half an hours searching brought them to cargo bay three.  There
in the middle of the deck was a glowing ring, six foot across,
jet back inside.  The tricorders went wild, there was no doubt
about it.  This ring was the source of the gravitational pulses,
and they were getting worse.



Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: TNG Story: Derlict (Part 3)
Date: 14 May 1994 07:43:18 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
Lines: 193
Message-ID: <2r2khm$l7c@nyx10.cs.du.edu>




DERELICT 
by P.D Hubbard.

Part 3.


'Those were the only recordings we could obtain from the ships
log' said Riker.  The previous hours events were being reviewed
at the senior officers meeting in the conference room. 
'Tricorder reading of the abnormality on board the starliner show
some sort of portal....possibly into another dimension.....'.

Picard chewed on this for a few moments.  'Mr Data, have the
sensor logs been able to discover how this abnormality was
created?, and more importantly, where does it go to?????'

'That' replied Data, 'is yet to be discovered.  However, the log
records left aboard the Doradus, along with other files stored
on the library computer show that the crew onboard the starliner
salvaged parts from the now useless warp drive and created a
doorway into subspace, not unlike the principal that warp
technology uses.  It appears that the scientist on board, a Dr
Raj Naveen, incidentally a student of Zephram Cochrane, exploited
a little known side effect of warp mechanics.  Unfortunately,
that effect has violated the laws of our universe, the gateway
is unstable, and will continue growing with each gravitational
fluctuation.....'

At that moment, a graviton pulse shook the Enterprise.

'It appears' continued Data, 'that the gateway has grown again'.

Picard cut in.  'Mr Data, is there any way we can shut down the
gateway from our side?'.

'That Sir, is at the present time unknown.  However, we do know
what is on the other side of the gate.  Myself and Lieutenant
Worf used a antigrav sledge on a tether with a recording probe
attached and sent it through the gate.  The results, before the
camera was snuffed out show the following vista.....'

Data selected the file from the computer and the recording
started playing on the screen.  The probe started moving towards
the gateway, space twisted, righted itself, twisted again and
then cleared suddenly to reveal a open panoramic view of
uncultivated fields.  A sun hung high in the sky, strange ferns
dotted the landscape, and even more incredible, small biped
lizards scuttled around in the background.  Suddenly, the camera
view shook one, then twice, three times, then the picture cut
out.  The recording ended.

Data continued.  'That is the only recording we have.  Sensor
readings show a Earth normal atmosphere and gravity, the CO
content is slightly higher than Earth but, more worrying is that
the sensors picked up vast amounts of Iridium..'

'Iridium?' interrupted Riker

'Yes Sir.  In the soil, the air, and most probably the water as
well.  Most unusual for a Earth normal planet.  The sensor camera
came back with a large chunk missing out of it and teeth marks. 
It appears there are larger indigenous species around than the
small lizards we saw'.

'Recommendations number one?' said Picard.

'The only recommendation I can give is to send a away team
through the portal to the other side.  Seek out the source of the
gateways power and destroy it'.

Picard thought about this for a few minutes more, then finally
came to a decision.

'Agreed number one.  However, all away team members are to take
a phaser rifle with them in addition to their phaser sidearms. 
I don't want anybody coming back like the sensor probe.  I'm sure
the good doctor would not like to stitch you back together
again........Meeting closed'.


                         ________________


A few hours later, Worf, Riker, Data, LaForge, Crusher and Troi
were all standing in front of the gateway, wearing environment
suits.  The gateway had grown by a foot in all directions and the
graviton effects with it.

'Ok everyone' called Riker, 'this is it.  I want you to be all
careful, don't take chances.  I will lead first and Worf will
follow up in the rear.  Lets go....'.

Riker walked towards the gate and slowly entered.  Nothing
happened until the last part of himself entered.  Space twisted,
turned, twisted, turned again, almost like being in freefall, a
vast emptiness surrounded him, then, suddenly, space righted
itself and Riker found himself walking out onto a vast plain. 
Turning, he watched the away team emerge, Worf bringing up the
rear.

Troi looked sick.

'Deanna, are you all right?????' asked LaForge.

'Fine, fine' she replied, 'I'm just a bit disorientated, that's
all,......whewwwww, some trip'.

'Yeah, my guts are doing the loops as well' said LaForge.

Data consulted his tricorder.
'Oxygen content is currently 30%, humidity 40%, a few trace
elements.  Iridium is currently at three thousand parts per
million........It is safe to breath the atmosphere'.

Cautiously, they all removed their helmets and sampled the air. 
After a few minutes, no ill effects were noticeable and the suits
were removed as well.  Beverleys medical tricorder started
bleeping.

'I have life reading' she started.  'Human...........just over
that hill........two more........many..........'

'I think our best course would be to proceed over and
investigate' replied Riker.

'Sir, I protest' cut in Worf.  'We have no way of knowing if they
are hostile or not.  Digression would be the better course of
action'.

Riker paused.  'Noted Mr Worf.  However, we are carrying Phaser
rifles and surprise is ours......'

At that moment, a figure walked out of the trees, followed by two
others.  A cheery "Hello" was called and the men walked over to
the away team.  The tall blond haired man walked up to Riker and
addressed himself.

'Hello, I'm Captain George Marshall.  I take it you are the
rescue party??'

Riker looked agog.  'Marshall, the captain of the Doradus?????'

'The very same!!!!!!'

'Impossible, you've been dead, you've all been dead many years'.

'Never' replied Marshall.  'Its only been ten years since we
arrived through the gateway.  Incidentally, what ship are you
from?? and what equipment is that.  Ive never seen a tricorder
like that.  From what division of Starfleet are you from eh? 
Search and Rescue?.......Military.....?????????'

Riker thought very hard on what he would say next.  He could be
soft and hold back the information until later, but then the
captain was from Starfleet, he would understand better if the
truth was told.  Finally he opted for the latter.

'Captain, you and your passengers, and your ship have been
missing for over 200 years.  Your ship was only found by accident
whilst we were investigating a abnormality.  This may be a bit
of a shock to you and any survivors'.

Marshalls response, and that of his companions was totally
unexpected.  They started to chuckle amongst themselves.  'Two
hundred years' they cried.  Finally, Marshall quietened down and
turned to Riker.

'My apologies Captain, it was expected.  The scientist who
created the gate warned us that time may, or may not move at the
same rate here that from where we left.  He called it a escalator
gate or something.  In the meantime, we must get moving.  It will
be dark soon and all sorts of predators will be roaming around. 
It would not be seemly for our guests to be -Dish of the day-'.

After ten minutes walking, the party cleared the brow of a hill
and there before them stood a town.  A modest affair, built of
timber construction and surrounded by a force field.

'Gentlemen, and ladies' addressed the Captain, 'Welcome to New
Providence'



End of Part 3






Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!pipex!sunic!trane.uninett.no!eunet.no!nuug!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: TNG Story: Derelict (Part 4)
Date: 14 May 1994 07:44:07 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
Lines: 119
Message-ID: <2r2kj7$li7@nyx10.cs.du.edu>



Derelict
________

Part 4   by P.D Hubbard.

After a meal of something delicious, but quite unidentifiable,
the away team settled down to talk to their guests, the survivors
of the Doradus.  Many questions were on their minds and Riker
started the ball rolling.

'Captain Marshall, we are curious as to the high levels of
Iridium in the atmosphere, the water and the soil.  Was the
planet like this as you found it?????'

'Oh no,' replied Marshall, 'it was never always like this.  When
we arrived it was a untamed wilderness.  The indigenous
population of lizards were a hindrance at first and we had to
make safe the area before the bulk of the settlers came through.'

He paused for a few seconds then continued.  'A few years after
we arrived....., according to what rudimentary instruments we
saved from the Doradus, a massive asteroid slammed into the
western continent.  Iridium was ejected into the atmosphere, in
fact, it's only been a year since the sky's finally cleared and
the sun has been visible.  Recon parties have found the other
continent to be a shambles.  Nothing has survived there, in fact,
most of the animal population has been wiped out.  What you see
here are a few survivors of various species.  As far as we know,
Raj told us that a 12 mile wide lump of rock did most of the
damage.'

'Can we see Mr Raj??????' said Troi.

'That.....,' he said, patting her hand, 'my dear, is a little
impossible.  Poor Raj died a few years back.  He got careless and
one of the lizards got him.  After all he done for us....what a
waste......'

LaForge decided to get to the heart of the matter.

'Captain......'

'Yes Mr LaForge???'

'About the gate.  Is there any way to shut it down?????'

'No' replied Marshall.  'The apparatus which drove the gate
exists within the space between your own universe and ours.  Why
would you want to shut down the gate??????'

'The gateway is causing ecological problems on our side.  As the
Doradus drifts into Federation space, more and more gravitic
emanations are taking place.  The gate is growing bigger as we
speak, causing more and more problems.  The Doradus, and the
gate, are now a hazard to navigation and this threat will grow
the longer we leave it.  Now, Captain, we must make preparations
for the evacuation  of you and your people......'

'Evacuation!!!!!!!!  No, never.  Mr Riker, we have sweated blood
and tears making this a pleasurable world.  A short while back,
we held a referendum amongst us, ready for the day when rescue
finally came.  We all voted with our feet, we want to stay and
nobody will make us change our minds.  Ask anybody here, ask any
of our citizens, they will tell you the same....We are staying
put.'

'And what about when we close the gate???  Your people will be
stranded here with no hope of returning.'

'Mr Riker' replied Marshall, 'we have lived here in isolation for
years, with no hope of rescue.  Nothing has changed, you will be
gone as quickly as you arrived and all will be back to normal. 
The lives that we lead in the Federation hold nothing for us now. 
We have new lives here and we want to continue.'

At that moment, the door opened and Data entered.

'Report Mr Data' asked Riker.

'Sir, I have been back to the Enterprise via the gateway. 
According to the Enterprise clocks, the away team has been away
for exactly two weeks.  The discrepancy is due to the way the
gate folds time and space.  I have also been asking the colonists
if they would like to leave.....none of the colonists I have
spoken to want to leave.'

Marshall looked pleased.  'Exactly what I told you Mr Riker.'

Defeated, Riker turned and address Marshall.  'I guess we are
wasting our time here.  Give us a list of any essentials you may
require for survival and we will do our best to fill the list. 
It's the least we can do considering how long you have been
lost.'


                         _____________


By late afternoon the next day, a large collection of consumables
had been transported through the gate.  Only Riker and Worf,
dressed in environment suits were left, the others having
transported back through the gate.

'I guess it's time to say goodbye' said Riker.  'Good luck
Captain Marshall, regardless of whatever fate throws at you'

'And the same to you Commander Riker' said Marshall, shaking his
hand.

Worf and Riker turned away and after placing their helmets back
on, stepped into the portal, back to the Doradus and the
Enterprise.



End of Part 4

Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!warwick!uknet!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: TNG Story: Derelict (Part 5)
Date: 14 May 1994 07:44:48 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
Lines: 261
Message-ID: <2r2kkg$lrt@nyx10.cs.du.edu>



Derelict
________

Part 5 , by P.D Hubbard.


Worf and Riker emerged from the gateway.  Almost instantly, there
was another gravity surge and the gate widened.  It was now
larger than the cargo bay and several bulkheads of the ship now
existed somewhere inside the folded dimensions of the gate.  At
the rate the gate was growing it would soon swallow the whole
ship and anything in space around it.

Riker thumbed his communication button.

'Riker to Enterprise'

'Enterprise here Sir'

'Two to beam aboard'

'Sorry Sir, no can do.  There is too much interference from the
gate for a safe transport.  Mr Data is standing by at boarding
lock 3 with a shuttle, suggest you make your way there Sir.'

'Acknowledged, Riker out'

The communication channel closed.

'Mr Worf, it appears we have a long walk ahead of us.....'

Worf said nothing.  His face said it all.


                              _____________


Fifteen minutes later, Worf and Riker staggered into boarding
area 3.  Ahead of them was Boarding lock 3 and the shuttlecraft
just beyond.  They both entered the airlock, closed the hatch and
waited for the lock to cycle.  Finally they emerged from the
bulkhead, noisily clanging their helmets against the bulkhead
wall in sheer exhaustion.

'Mr Data, am I glad to see you' exclaimed Riker, 'How long have
we been gone?'

Data consulted his internal clock then replied.  'Three weeks,
two days, 13 hours, 10 minutes and 18 seconds precisely since the
away team left the Enterprise'

'That long?'

'Yes Sir.  You are both required urgently for a briefing aboard
the Enterprise.  It appears Mr LaForge has discovered a method
of shutting down the gate'

'Thank god for that'

The shuttle flew back to the Enterprise.


                              ______________


Half a hour later, the senior bridge crew sat around the
conference table.  Mr LaForge had the floor and was trying his
best not to bore them.

'Basically' he continued, 'we use nature to help us.  Not far
from here is a black hole, PK22043K+.  According to readings we
obtained from the gateway, it is possible to shut it down by
using another gravitational force, a black hole, to nullify the
gate and shut the subspace hole.'

'What problems are there Mr LaForge' said Picard.

'First, we have to get the engines back on line.  That is
difficult enough as it is.  Most of the control gear is shot to
hell and nothing works.  I have a damage control team over there 
at the moment.  We are having to replicate parts from patterns
over two hundred years old and transfer them over.  A second
engineering team here is pulling a canister of Antimatter for the
Doradus's engine.  She has plenty of Deuterium left but the
Antimatter stores are exhausted.  The only other problem is to
patch the damaged hull.'

Riker cut in.  'I have a medical team, under Dr Crusher's
supervision currently working to inter the body of the chief
engineer for funeral purposes.  I have asked councillor Troi to
arrange the funeral details'

'Very good' replied Picard.  'Mr Data, are there any problems
regarding the stripped warp drive?'

'Several Sir.  We cannot replace the missing warp coils.  The
parts are simply too big to replicate.  At the moment the repair
teams are using the leftover parts from the drive to repair
damaged equipment on the intact warp nacelle.  The Doradus will
move under her own power but at only half her possible speed.'

'At least moving her under her own power is better than towing
her on a tractor beam' said LaForge.

'Agreed' replied Picard.  'I want to be informed immediately as
soon as the Doradus is ready to get under way.  Meeting closed.'


                              _____________


On the Doradus's engineering deck, a rather irate Geordi sat
hunched under a control panel.  Half gravity and a breathable
atmosphere had been restored to important areas of the ship but
the devastation in engineering was worse the originally believed. 
Over the other side of the compartment, a pair of legs belonging
to Lt Commander Data was sticking out of a service conduit.
Geordi reached up, twisted a few dial, and a cloud of sparks shot
out of the panel.  He duck out quickly.

'Godammit, three hours work down the pan....' he bemoaned.

Data slid out from the service conduit, stood up, brushed off his
uniform and walked over to the panel.

'Allow me, I learnt this from a engineer'

Data let fly a hefty kick on the bottom of the console.  Almost
immediately the panel jumped to life, auxiliary systems coming
on line one by one.

'Nice trick Data, where did you pick that up?????'

'From Captain Scott.  He said that when all else fails to work,
a "wee kick in the trooosers" usually puts things right'

'Figures'

At that moment, Worf entered the hatch and approached Geordi.

'Sir, the bridge computer is now on line.  The remote helm link
to the Enterprise has been installed.  Navigation and helm will
now interface with the computer and the drive room.  The main
viewer is now working and...' he said a satisfied grin on his
face, '..the bridge toilets now operate.'

'Well done Worf.  Thanks to Data here, all we have to do is cold
start the warp core to get this crate under way.  Better evacuate
all unwanted personnel back to the Enterprise.  I've never cold
started a warp core as old as this, anything can happen.'

'Yes Sir' and he sauntered off.

'LaForge to captain Picard'

'Picard here'

'Sir, we are now ready to cold start the warp core just as soon
as all non essential crew members are off.  I'd suggest that the
Enterprise stands off a safe distance just incase anything goes
wrong.  Data will be staying to assist me here.'

'Acknowledged Mr LaForge, Good luck and Enterprise out.'

'Data'

'Yes Geordi?'

'Ive never worked with a warp drive that does not use Dilithium
in the drive core.  Is there anything you know that would help
me?'

'Nothing comes to mind except to be careful.'

'Oh......  Lets get started then.'

After a few minutes of setting up the startup procedure, all was
ready.  Geordi was nervous, and it showed.  One false move and
the first they would know about it was when they turned around
and saw a set of Purley gates, assuming of course Data had a
Android version of Heaven.

QUEEP.  'Picard to LaForge'

'Laforge here.  Go ahead captain.'

'We are now at a safe distance and all non essential staff are
on board.  You may go ahead and start up the warp core.'

'Thank you sir, LaForge out.  Data, increase flow reading on the
primary matter injector to 15%...'

'Adjusting to 15%...'

'Antimatter to 1.5%....Starting cold pulse now.'

A single pulse of matter raced towards the centre of the chamber. 
A single pulse of antimatter did so likewise.  The two met in the
reaction chamber and instantaneously annihilate each other.  The
core temperature jumped 20%.

'OK' exclaimed LaForge.  'At least this proves that the core held
itself together.  Going for secondary pulse now.'

A second large explosion of energy lit the reaction chamber.  The
temperature rose another 20%.  Suddenly a alarm rang out.

'Oh shit' cried Geordi, 'Data, there's a piece of unburnt
antimatter caught in the core....Flush it....Flush it......'

'I have it' responded Data, 'Flushing out of core now.....'

A small grain of antimatter shot out of the ejector tube into
free space.  It barely travelled a hundred yards when it collided
with a atom of hydrogen and exploded.  The bang was by stellar
standards small but it was enough to rock the Doradus.

'I Believe that is what you humans call -Close-....' said Data.

'Yeah....very close.  Cmon, lets get the startup sequence
finished....'

                         
                         _____________



A hour later, the engineering computer took over and initiated
a warm startup.  The pulses of energy smoothed out into a steady
stream of usable power.  After a few minutes, the reactions
settled down, all systems nominal.

'Data to Enterprise'

'Enterprise here, go ahead'

'Sir, the warp drive is now on line.  Mr LaForge and myself will
be returning to the Enterprise as soon as all checks are
complete.  The Doradus is nearly ready to get underway.'

'Confirmed Mr Data.  Well done gentlemen, a good job.'

'Thank you sir' they both replied, 'Doradus out.'

'I think' started LaForge, 'its time we got the hell out of
here.'

'I could not agree more' replied Data.

And with that, after a few more checks, they proceeded back to
the shuttle craft and the Enterprise.



End of part five.




Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk!warwick!uknet!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: TNG Story: Derelict (Part 6)
Date: 14 May 1994 07:45:32 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
Lines: 289
Message-ID: <2r2kls$m6a@nyx10.cs.du.edu>



Derelict.  Part 6

By P Hubbard.



The battered hulk of the Doradus hung in space.  Dead and without
power for over two hundred years, the sleeping engines under the
control of the Enterprise slowly coaxed back into life. 
Rotational thrusters flared once, then twice as she rotated her
bulk around to the heading 220 mark 4, along which the giant
black hole PK22043K+ existed.  Several more thrusters flared as
she completed her roll and the impulse engines cut in.  She would
take two and a half hours of constant acceleration before
reaching the point of warp engage.

In the cargo hold, the gate was getting larger.

On the bridge, Picard was looking jaded.  He was used to the
almost instantaneous jump to warp speed from a standing start. 
'How slow these liners were' he mused.  And at the back of his
mind was a nagging doubt that for all their efforts, nothing
would come of it.  Finally, fed up of the doubting, he sought
solace in the only thing he believed in.  His crew.

'Mr Data, status report' said Picard.

'All systems onboard the liner are nominal Sir.  All remote
subspace links are performing within tolerance levels Sir.  At
out current rate of acceleration, the Doradus will hit warp
engage in four minutes thirteen seconds.'

'Very good Mr Data, carry on.  Number one, any foreseeable
problems?'

'Not too many Sir.  Provided that Mr LaForge done his sums right,
we will be able to close the gateway......'

'I hope so too, number one.  The question is, how close can we
get to the black hole to nullify the gate before we are sucked
in?'

That got Riker wondering as well.

The chronometer counted off the seconds slowly, finally as the
counter neared zero, the Doradus slowly started to stretch as she
entered Warp speed, the disappeared with a flash.  The Enterprise
followed, matching speed, slightly astern and to the Doradus's
port side.  Warp one slowly became warp two, then warp three. 
A optimum balance was reached with the one remaining warp pod and
a maximum velocity of Warp 3.11 was reached.

LaForge's voice filtered over the comms system.  'SL Doradus warp
system has stabilised at warp 3.11.  All systems are within
tolerance levels.  No foreseen problems so far Sir'.

'Nicely done Mr LaForge.  Pass on congratulations to all
concerned' said Picard.

'Thank you Sir, LaForge out........(plink)'



                              ____________




A few hours later, the Enterprise and the Doradus arrived at the
black hole.  During the last half hour of the flight, the
Doradus's one functioning Warp pod had been labouring badly
against the load and the radiator vents were glowing cherry red
as they vainly attempted to disperse the heat and her overall
speed had dropped to warp 2.7, but she had made it to the
shutdown point and her warp engines were put on standby.

'Start shutdown procedures' said Picard, who was seated in his
chair, nursing a cup of Earl Grey tea.

'Engaging the Doradus's thrusters' replied LaForge who had joined
them on the bridge.  'Starting fall to optimum shutdown orbit'

The Doradus began to fall.  As she did so, wisps of the gate
which was by now looking like the starship had been rammed into
a giant Doughnut was peeling off and falling down towards the
black hole.  Almost immediately problems began to occur.

'Sir' called Geordi. 'The remote subspace link is starting to
waiver.  The gravitational effect from the black holes is
distorting the signals around.  We will have to follow the
Doradus in to maintain the link'.

Riker didn't like it one bit.  'If we follow the Doradus' he
hissed, 'it puts the ship in a dangerous position.  One false
move and we hit the jackpot.....'.

'Agreed' said Picard, 'but shutting the gateway down is far more
important.  Mr Data, follow the Doradus but maintain a safe
buffer distance just in case'.

'Yes Sir'

The Enterprise slowly began to follow the Doradus.  Almost
immediately the effects of the black hole began to exert
themselves on the Enterprise.  In cargo bay two, a operational
antigrav pallet began to edge itself towards the bulkhead nearest
the gravitic influence.  In ten forward, drinks began to flatten
themselves against the side of the glasses and in Engineering,
the influence of the gravitational pull was slowly distorting the
plasma within the warp core.  Clocks all over the ship slowly
began to run slower and slower.

Suddenly, the gateway onboard the Doradus twitched and enlarged
threefold, engulfing the Doradus within a grey sphere.  The
resulting gravity pulse yanked at the Enterprise.

'RED ALERT' barked Riker, 'Mr Data.....get us to a safe
position'.

Red alert klaxons screamed all over the ship.  Waist height light
bars along deckways pulsed red and security bulkheads all over
the ship closed and sealed themselves.

Worf looked up from his security panel.  'All deck report secure
Sir'.

Data nearly managed to straighten up the Enterprise's course but
another gravity pulse sent her spinning.........on a collision
course with the black hole.

On the bridge, and all over the ship, strange things began to
happen.

'M.i.s.t.e.r....D.a.t.a.........T.i.m.e....t.o....i.m.p.a.c.t.
...w.i.t.h....t.h.e....b.l.a.c.k....h.o.l.e.......??'

'O.n.e....m.i.n.u.t.e....S.i.r.........A.t.t.e.m.p.t.i.n.g....
t.o....s.t.e.a.d.y....c.o.u.r.s.e.........'

Another gravity pulse shook the ship and the glass of Earl Grey
fell in slow motion, tea spilling like liquid toffee all over the
deck carpet.

'I......c..a..n......n..o..t......g..e..t......p..o..w..e..r..
....S..i..r........' reported Data in slow motion. 
'F..i..r..i..n..g......a..f..t......t..h...r...u...s....t....e
....r....s..........n....o....w........................S......
I......F.................t........o......................f....
......u..........l............l...........................p...
...........o................w...................e.............
.......r'

Slowly, the descent began to shallow out.  At the least, the
Enterprise would now slingshot just outside of the event horizon,
at worst, the gravitational effects would tear her apart as she
did so.  Hopefully, the SIF field would hold her together.  In
a vicious 120 degree bank, the Enterprise shot around the black
hole and was expelled at a high rate of knots.  Time slowly began
to sort itself out.

'E........x.......i......t.....i....n...g..............' reported
Riker.

'W...a..r.p....engines coming back on line' called LaForge.

The staff all over the ship began to pick themselves off the
floor.  Systems slowly began to return to life.  The ships
computers finally decided what the time was.

A thought struck Picard.  'Mr Worf, location of the
Doradus......'

Worf consulted his scanner screens.  A large sphere was slowly
heading towards the black hole, gaining speed and size.

'Sir, the remains of the Doradus are heading on a direct
collision course towards the black hole.  Impact in two minutes.'

'Mr Data,' said Riker, 'what will happen when that gateway hits
the hole????????'

'One of two things.  The gateway may be absorbed by the black
hole, shutting it down or the gateway may evoke a violent
reaction with the black hole.  There is a 70% probability that
this will happen'.

'Good enough odds for me.  Data, get us out of here, best speed'.

'Aye Sir'.

A shaft, several kilometres wide, extended from the gateway
towards the black hole.  Where the gateway entered the event
horizon a violent reaction occurred.

The Enterprise crawled away to a safe but far distance.

Finally, like a game of cosmic billiards, the gate hit the black
hole and swallowed each other.  For a few seconds nothing
happened.  Then suddenly, the black hole began to lighten in
colour, slowly growing brighter as time in that area of space
began to run backwards.  Lighter and lighter the black hole grew
until suddenly, a it exploded in a flash and formed into a newly
formed star. A exact replica of it's previous self.  A large
shell of fire was slowly starting to expand from the star, the
aftermath of the explosion.

The Enterprise was right in it's way.

The shock front slammed into the rapidly fleeing Enterprise,
rattling and throwing her around like a stone in a tin can.  The
captains yacht broke free from the saucer and shot away, clipping
the main deflector.  The starboard pylon which held the warp
nacelle twisted out of true and then, to add insult to injury,
a small boulder, accelerated by the explosion, slammed into the
nacelle, fusing with the metal.  Several sections of external
plating was shredded like swiss cheese, explosively exposing the
interior to the airless cold of space.  In shuttle bay two, a
shuttle broke free from it's moorings and embedded itself in the
metal of the bay doors.  In cargo bay three, several workers were
crushed to death as they were engulfed in a avalanche of cargo
containers.  Within Ten Forward, designated a safety area,
several people were injured by shards of glass from the bar area. 
A technician inside computer core 2 was slammed into the
monitoring console, breaking his neck in three places.  All other
the ship, chaos reigned.

Finally, it's force spent, the shockwave died away

The Enterprise was dead in space.

On the bridge, all was quite.  A hand slowly extended up over the
console, followed by a face.  Data looked a mess.  Over in a
corner, councillor Troi lay in a huddle, her left arm twisted in
a strange angle.  LaForge was hanging from a wiring loom that was
protruding from the ceiling.  Riker and Worf had a few cracked
ribs whilst Picard and the bridge crew mostly escaped with a few
cuts and bruises.  The only death on the bridge was Lt Kitson,
who had been slammed into a control panel, crushing him
completely.

Riker saw Troi was in trouble and staggered over to her.

'Deanna.......are you all right???????????'

A eye opened.  Clearly in great pain from her broken arm she
coughed twice and looked at Riker.

'Did.....did you get the number of that shuttle that hit
me.........'

'Yeah, I got it.  Lay still while I make that arm safer'.  He
carried on talking to her as he worked.  'Don't worry, I'm a dab
hand at this.  If you think I look a bit rough then you should
see Data other there'.

In great pain, Troi slowly twisted her head towards Data.

'Hello Councillor' said Data, looking perplexed.  'Have you by
any chance see my right leg?????'

'Yeahh' replied Geordi, who was lowering himself from the
ceiling.  'I grabbed at you when you went past but all I got was
your leg.  Here you go'.  He handed Data his leg which he
promptly refitted.

The turbolift doors slowly cranked open to reveal Dr Crusher and
a burly security man.  She scanned around the bridge, spotted
Troi and raced over, medical tricoder out.

'I almost nearly didn't get here.  If it wasn't for Bull over
there wrenching open the doors, Id still be stuck on 'C' deck'.

'Hey, no problem Doc' replied Bull.

'Congratulations Deanna!!' she said, 'You have a nice greenstick
fracture.  I have to get you to sickbay immediately.  Now this
won't hurt one bit'.

The last thing Troi heard was her scream as she passed out.



                              ______________


End of part 6

Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!lyra.csx.cam.ac.uk!warwick!uknet!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: TNG Story: Derelict (Part 7)
Date: 14 May 1994 07:46:22 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
Lines: 121
Message-ID: <2r2kne$mhb@nyx10.cs.du.edu>



Derelict.

Part 7 by P.Hubbard




In the centre of the room sat a coffin.  Inside was the remains
of the chief engineer of the Doradus who had selfishly given his
life over two hundred years ago in a attempt to save others. 
Most of the bridge crew along with other officers and staff from
different departments on the Enterprise stood infront of the
coffin as captain Picard conducted the funeral ceremony.  Off to
one side, Deanna Troi sat in a chair, her wound showing out
plainly to all as a testament to the events of the previous day. 
Data had managed to repair himself with replicated parts and
nothing was amiss to indicate otherwise.


Picard started to wind up the service.

'.......and it is with honour that the chief engineer of the
Starliner Doradus, Terence Stephen Douglas, gave his life in the
service of his fellow officers and passengers in disregard for
his own life.  We can only wonder what sort of a man he was but
he will be remembered for what he achieved in life, not for his
death.  It is with these words that we commit his body to the
depth of space......'

'Arms....HUT'

A panel parted in the wall and the coffin slowly slid inside the
opening, the panel closing behind it to the sound of the comms
system playing Taps followed by a gunnery salute.  A external
panel opened and the coffin was ejected into space.

'Dismiss'

The people started to file away, some back to their families,
some to mourn the loss of a colleague, many to mourn the loss of
one hundred and seventy two crew members and many to repair the
damage that the Enterprise sustained.  Although not mortally
wounded, the Enterprise had damage that would see her in dry dock
for a considerable number of stardates.

Geordi LaForge approached Picard and Data.

'Sir, I have the finalised estimate on the damage sustained'.

'Whats the bottom line???' replied Picard.

'At the moment Sir, our biggest worry is the starboard pylon. 
It is twisted ten percent out of true and although I can
compensate for it putting the engines out of tune, it will limit
our overall speed to Warp 3.  Life support on several decks is
limited but the food replicator systems are back on line.  That's
it Sir'.

'Very good Mr LaForge.  Now, I believe our presence is required
in ten forward.  Guinan has arranged for a wake in honour of the
dead.  Gentlemen.......'.



                         _______________


In ten forward, Beverley Crusher, Will Riker and Deanna Troi were
clustered around a table when Data, LaForge, Worf and Picard
entered.  They made a bee line for the group.  Apparently, Data
had something of a discovery to share with them.

'Well' said Picard, 'We're all here.  Apparently, Mr Data has
made a discovery which will surprise us.  Mr Data......'.

'Thank you Sir.  When we were visiting the site where the
colonist had set up camp, I was intrigued by the high amounts of
Iridium within the ecosystem.  More intriguing was the vast
selection of animals roaming about the encampment.  After careful
analyses of the soil samples and comparing them with known soil
samples, I made a match......'

'And.....Mr Data......'

According to computer Data, the Iridium is a exact molecular
match with core samples taken from the Gulf of Mexico on Earth. 
it appears that the colonists are living on the planet Earth and
do not know it...'

'That's impossible' blurted LaForge, then he stopped and thought
about it again......the strange animals and plant life that
looked so familiar.  The nearly exact planetary revolution. 
Things started to add up.

Data continued.  'The final piece of proof was the animal and
plant life.  They match known fossil records and surviving
species on Earth.  That is Earth of sixty five million years ago,
Central Africa to be precise'.

'My god' exclaimed Riker.  They all looked shocked.  'They must
have opened up a time portal within subspace.  The poor devils
don't have a chance.  A few centuries and they will be extinct. 
History has shown that to be the case'.

'Sir, the animals that were roaming the plain were from several
species of Dinosaur.  They had survived the asteroid hit so it
is reasonable to assume that the final pockets of Dinosaur life
was wiped out by colonists sixty five million years ago.  The
human race wiped out the Dinosaurs, the asteroid just helped it
along'.

And with that, they all lapsed into silence whilst the USS
Enterprise limped on her way home.




The End..

