Article 69859 of rec.arts.startrek:
Path: ariel.unm.edu!pprg.unm.edu!topgun!mustang!data.nas.nasa.gov!eos!shelby!snorkelwacker.mit.edu!spool.mu.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!hamblin.math.byu.edu!news
From: smithw@hamblin.math.byu.edu (Dr. William V. Smith)
Newsgroups: rec.arts.startrek
Subject: TNG meets the Doomsday Machines (first 1/3)
Message-ID: <SMITHW.91Feb28130056@hamblin.hamblin.math.byu.edu>
Date: 28 Feb 91 19:00:56 GMT
Sender: news@hamblin.math.byu.edu (Usenet News)
Organization: Brigham Young University
Lines: 465

Well I decided to try my hand at a TNG episode.  Its about 1/3 of the way 
done. I have not been too careful about distance/time relations, but then 
this seems rather muddled on the show in any case.  Don't know when I'll 
be able to finish it, maybe I'll have time in a month or so, when I get 
home. (If there's any interest, that is...).   There may be a little drift 
in terminology and such, this was done in two segments, about two weeks 
apart.  I know what's going to happen though.  So here it is.  
Hope you like it.  (This seems to involve several threads that have
appeared lately in this group- this was not intentional and does not
necessarily reflect my own opinions about those issues.)


TNG meets the Doomsday Machines (first 1/3)
copyright W. V. Smith 1991, all rights reserved.

Opening scene:
Enterprise moving- dropping out of warp drive- shuttle approaches-
Cut to E bridge:
Picard: Lt. Fisher, reduce to 1/4 impulse.
Fisher: Aye, sir.  (shuttle is seen entering a shuttle bay)
Riker enters from turbolift right.
Picard: Well, number one.  I understand your work with the Janfac Prime 
Minister was highly successful.  The treaty should bring them much closer 
to Federation membership.  Excellent work, commander!
Riker: Thank you, sir.  Given the Janfac respect for sophisticated weapon 
systems,  I believe the presence of the Enterprise in this sector and the 
ease with which we were able to destroy the free asteroid field approaching 
their home planet had great influence on the negotiations for mining the 
Janfac 3  moons.   By the way sir, while conversing with the ambassador's 
assistant, I was given to understand that you had been working on an 
explanation for their problem.  
Picard:  Yes.  Mr. Data?
Data:  Sir, trajectory computations are nearly complete.  Preliminary 
analysis seems to indicate a point of origin near the Parkin Nebula.  
My analysis of the asteroids themselves is complete.
Riker:  Well Data?
Data:  Commander, I believe it may be better if we discussed the results 
elsewhere.
Picard:  Well then,  would you join me in my ready room?  Data, Commander?
(they move to Picard's ready room).
Picard:  Data, what do have to tell us?
Data:  Captain, our destruction of the asteroid field was quite complete.  
During our approach, while Commander Riker was on the surface of Janfac 1, 
I was able to gather significant data on the nature of the fragments.  
Using directed energy scattering ...(Picard interrupts)
Picard:  Mr. Data, I have the utmost confidence in your choice of 
technique.  Can you tell us what you found?
Data: (somewhat crestfallen)  Sir, the fragments appeared to have been 
recently part of a larger object.  Various computer extrapolations 
indicate that the original object was planet size, approximately 1.1 
Earth units.   Furthermore, the breakup was evidently quite recent.
Riker:  Was there any evidence that the planet was inhabited?
Data:  I am not completely sure commander, the original destruction was 
quite thorough, but I believe I can say with 60% probability that the 
answer is yes.  Some of our scans just before Mr. LaForge began automated 
firing seemed to show the remains of what might have been humanoid life forms.
Picard:  And the request for privacy, Mr. Data?
Data:  Last evening, I escorted Lt. Fisher to Ten Forward and was instructing 
her in the game of Poker,(Riker smirks) when I learned from her that her 
family is working with the terraforming team on Cafferty's planet in one 
of the Parkin systems.  I thought it might be best if we did not cause 
her unnecessary alarm.
Picard:  (Picard smiles) Well done, Mr. Data.  Your increasing understanding 
of human feeling and perception is most gratifying.  (pauses)  The 
problem I see with your concern is the time involved.
Data: Sir?
Picard:  Commander, the Parkin systems are 158 light years distant.  
These fragments could hardly have been part of Cafferty's planet.  
Mr. LaForge had more than enough time to disperse or disintegrate the 
field, since it was moving quite slowly.
Riker:  Data, did you get any reading on how old the life form remains 
were?
Data:  As I said, sir, the data was incomplete, but the mean estimates 
seem to show that death occurred only a few months previous to our encounter.
Picard:  Well.  It seems we have a mystery on our hands.  (looks at Riker)  
Your recommendations number one?
Riker:  Sir, when Mr. Data's calculations on the trajectory of the field 
are complete, recommend we move back along the projected path and see what 
we can find out regarding the origin of the fragments.
Picard:  I agree.  Mr. Data, set course accordingly.
Data:  Yes, sir.
Picard:  Will(smiles) I was instructed to tell you when you arrived on board 
that the Ship's Counselor would be awaiting you inside holodeck entrance 3.  
I think you've earned a little rest.  Gentlemen (gestures toward the door).
Riker:  Thank you, Captain.  I'd like to be kept informed on any developments 
in our search.
Picard:  Rest assured, I'll keep you informed, Will. (Riker leaves)
Data:  I have a request, sir.
Picard:  Yes, Data.
Data:  Recommend that we do not alarm the crew about the present situation.
Picard: You mean, you think it is unnecessary to inform Lt. Fisher of the 
remote possibility that the asteroid field may be the remains of Cafferty's 
planet?
Data: (a somewhat pensive expression). Yes sir.
Picard:  Agreed.  However, if more definite information becomes available 
we will have to inform the crew of our findings  and plans, Data.
Data: Understood sir.  Thank you sir. (leaves)
Picard: (closeup shows a quizzical look on Picards face in reaction to 
Data's concern)
(Cut to corridor leading to holodeck entrance 3)
Riker dials in opening sequence.  Doors open, reveal forest of huge pines 
surrounding a verdant meadow covered with wild flowers and short grass.  
Near one side of the meadow, Troi is seated on a blanket in the shade with 
an old fashioned picnic basket. Riker smiles with a combination of surprise 
and interest.  He walks up to Troi and she stands.  They take one another's 
hands.
Troi:  Will, I wanted to surprise you when you returned.  I thought you 
might like some relaxation time (smiles, but look changes to one of inquiry 
as she watches Riker's face)
  Riker slowly steps forward and puts arms around Tori's waist, her hands 
move to grasp his biceps.  He moves slowly down to Troi's mouth
Troi: Will . . .(He kisses her, she responds and their embrace becomes more 
ardent).
(Cut to bridge.  Picard enters, sits in center seat)
Picard:  Mr. Data.  Progress report.
Data:  Captain, calculations have been completed on possible point of 
origin and I have set course  7.94 mark 3.  Request permission to go to 
maximum warp, sir.
Picard:  Lt. Fisher, go to warp 9. Engage.
(exterior shot, Enterprise accelerates out of sight)
Cut to engineering.  LaForge is bending over the island console. Another 
officer is standing beside him.
LaF:  Well the captain must be in a hurry to go somewhere. (touches comm 
button)
(Cut to bridge)
Captain, engineering here, we have just completed our adjustments to drive 
systems as per Starfleet Borg conflict recommendations.  If we're in a hurry 
sir, we can go to warp 9.7 on your command.
Picard:  Thank you Commander.  Mr. Fisher, make it so.
Fisher: Aye, sir.
Cut to holodeck.
Riker and Troi are laying on the blanket, still in passionate embrace.  
Troi pulls back.
Troi: (breathing rather fast) Will, what are we doing?  I thought we had 
agreed that this could lead nowhere.
Riker: (gently) Counselor, shut up.
Troi: But . . .(He kisses her neck) oh Will. . .
Cut to bridge.
Worf:  Captain, long range sensors indicate some kind of debris ahead. 
Picard: Estimated time to arrive in vicinity of debris?
Worf:  two hours, 38 minutes.
Picard:  Mr. Data, analysis?
Data:  The material is too distant at this time sir, but it appears to be 
of the same type as that encountered on the intercept course with Janfac 1.  
Trajectory is somewhat different than the previous debris field and appears 
to pose no danger to any known inhabited world at this time, Captain.
Picard: Continue on course.
(Cut to engineering.  Geordi and Lt. Barclay are looking at console 
readouts, and a visual of the Enterprise warp field)
LaF:  Barclay, what do you make of the changes we made in the field 
magnet alignment?
Barclay:  The changes needed seem to be almost exactly the ones Starfleet 
recommended.  We could not have done it without the simulation code they 
sent us.  The borg-threat team has been doing some interesting things, 
Commander.
LaF:  Yeah, but what I really want to try are the new adjustments to 
phaser capability.  The new carrier design was really effective on that 
asteroid field.  It might just give us the edge we've been looking for.
Barclay:  Request permission to run simulation with previous Borg encounter 
information, sir.  I'd like to see if we can use the carrier effect to break 
through the subspace diversion fields we found on the Borg tapes from the 
Captain.
LaF:  Good idea, Barclay!  Go ahead and run your simulation now.  I'll get 
Ensign Davydov to help me monitor here.
(Barclay leaves.  LaForge watches him go with a smile)
Later...
Bridge.  Enterprise has stopped relative to an asteroid field.  Main 
viewscreen shows many fragments.  Cut to outside of enterprise, shows 
asteroid field stretching off in front of the Enterprise, with some pieces 
clearly much larger than the ship.
Data:  Analysis complete sir.  Request permission to discuss findings in 
private, Captain.
Fisher:  Captain, I think I know why Mr. Data wishes to leave the bridge.  
I know where the trajectory plot leads, sir.  The point of origin coincides 
with the Parkin systems.  In fact while we've been following, I did some 
computations of my own.  This debris  is from the same sector as  Cafferty's 
planet.  My parents are working there with the terraforming team.  If you 
don't mind, Captain, I request that Mr. Data stop withholding information 
that might concern me personally.  I assure you that my performance won't 
be effected by what we discover (she gives Picard a steely look and then 
Data).
Picard:  (his mouth twitches with a slight smile) Mr. Data, give us your 
findings.
Data: (with a look of consternation and confusion glances from Picard to 
Fisher slowly and then back)  Captain, the debris is indeed from Cafferty's 
planet.  I have found evidence of the large terraforming equipment typically 
used in these projects.  Cafferty's planet was the only Starfleet project in 
that system.   Berthold radiation is  emanating from this collection of debris
at very low levels. (Fisher's expression reveals no emotion)  
Picard: Speculation, Mr. Data?
Data:  This appears to be destruction caused by outside means, sir.  I do not 
believe this to be any sort of natural disaster.  No known natural process or 
logical extrapolation of natural process could account for the distance the 
debris has traveled from its apparent original location.  Captain, with your 
permission, I would like to review starfleet records for known incidents of 
this type.
Picard:  Granted, Mr. Data.  (Data gets up and moves behind weapons console) 
Mr. Worf,  switch to active long range sensors.  I want to know what's out 
there well in advance of when we encounter it.  (touches comm button)  This 
is the Captain,  Commander Riker to the bridge.
Cut to holodeck. Riker and Troi break from lingering kiss, she lays back and 
smiles in a contented way.
Riker: (reaches for uniform and says)  Riker to bridge, on my way sir. 
(Looks at Troi, moves  toward her and they kiss once more, then Riker 
stands- view is past his shoulder to Troi, covered with blanket.- 
view shifts  to close up of Troi's face as she watches Riker quickly 
dress- there is a look of combined resignation and pleasure on her face 
as she sees him walk toward the holodeck entrance)
Cut to bridge. Riker enters and sits in the 1st officers chair.
Picard:  Mr. Data has determined that the asteroid field we encountered 
near Janfac 1 was debris from Cafferty's planet.  What's out there 
(gestures to viewscreen), appears to be more.
Fisher: (to herself) Almost like something swallowed it, chewed it up 
and spit it out along the way.
Riker:  What was that Lt?
Fisher: I was just thinking out loud sir.  It looks like something chewed 
up the planet and then discarded the remains while it moved along.
Data: Lt. Fisher's hypothesis might explain some observations I have made
of the fragments, sir.  A number of pieces seem to have been seared near
the edges, as though something had cut them.
Riker:  (to Picard) That would explain a great deal.  If that were true, 
then the trajectory we have been following may be the track of what ever 
destroyed the planet.
Picard: If that were true, number one, why haven't we encountered this
*thing* along the way?
Worf:  We are being hailed, sir.
Riker: On screen, Worf.
(the screen changes to a view of a control room, the room is apparently 
shaking badly)
Person_on_screen:  Enterprise! Help! We are being attacked!
(Fisher's finger's begin to run over the helm console-cut to Enterprise  
outside view-
Enterprise begins turn back to Janfac 1)
Picard:  Lt! all stop! (no response from Fisher) Mr. LaForge, disengage 
warp drive, and impulse engines.
LaF:  Aye, sir.
(Enterprise stops accelerating)
Picard:  Geordi, bring us to our previous position and hold us there.
LaF: Aye, aye, Captain.

View of Enterprise, holding position near a large field of asteroids, many are
apparently much larger than NCC-1701D.  
Captains log: Subspace communications seemed to indicate that Janfac 1 
was under attack, but transmission was interrupted before any information 
could be passed to us.  I relayed what data we had to the USS Hood, which 
is 1 hour and 53 minutes from Janfac 1.  The Enterprise is holding position 
beside what appears to be more debris from the unexplained breakup of 
Cafferty's planet in one the Parkin systems.

(Cut to view of bridge crew.  Troi enters from right)
Picard:  Lt. Fisher,  I need an explanation of this behavior.  
Fisher:  I -  I . . . I'm sorry sir,  I don't know what came over me.
Picard:  Lt., you'll have to do better than that. (he waits, no reponse)
As of now, you are confined to quarters.
Fisher:  Yes sir. (Leaves, avoids the gaze of all).
Riker:  Well, what do you make of that?
Picard:  Counselor?
Troi:  I sensed confusion and anger, but also that she was hiding 
something.
Data:  If I may interrupt, sir, I believe I may have found an answer in my
search of Starfleet records.
Picard:  Go on Mr. Data.
Data:  Starfleet records indicate that Lt. Fisher's family on both her mother
and father's side have a long history of being involved in projects at the
frontiers of Federation space.  Her grandmother on the maternal side was one of
the original colony members on Seldon's planet and survived the plague there.
Her great grand father (Picard interrupts)
Picard:  Yes, yes Data.  How does this bear on the present situation.
Data:  As I was trying to explain sir, her parents are Drs. James and Maria
Fisher.  (Riker interrupts)
Riker:  James Fisher.  Didn't he have something to do with the breakthrough on
cultivation of grains on volcanic rock?  I seem to remember that there was a
problem with the trial run on one of the moons of Rigel 9.  Some of his staff
complained about Fisher's conduct when supplies ran short.  Several of his
assistants were missing when a starship finally checked up on them. 
Data:  Commander Riker is correct Captain.  James Fisher was demoted from his
position as chief of field operations for the Federation Agricultural Science
Directorate.  Later he was criticized widely among his colleagues for 
allegedly forging data to support his rather arcane hypotheses on the 
growth of plant life in the presence of various kinds of ionizing radiation.  
(Data observes Picard grimacing-Data's expression seems to show a bit of 
disappointment)  My search has also revealed two other 
instances of  mysterious destruction of planetary systems.
The first took place nearly a century ago,  and involved the original
Enterprise, captained by one James Kirk.  They encountered an apparently 
ancient machine which actually destroyed some inhabited systems.
Picard:  Excerpts from James Kirk's logs and memoirs are required reading at 
command school.  He was one of the finest commanders ever to be part of 
Starfleet. And the other instance?
Data:  The other instance is more recent.  It took place 12 years ago in the
Cordon system.  An outpost on a planetoid near the Romulan Neutral Zone, 
testing growth properties of genetically altered grains, under extreme 
conditions, was destroyed.  (Data pauses)
The station was established by the order of James Fisher.  His son was part of
the team at the station.  Records of the incident are incomplete and the
investigation was inconclusive.
Riker: Why run those kind of risks for the sake of testing food growth?  Surely
those kinds of conditions can be duplicated in Federation laboratories.
Data:  The philosophy of the field operations division under James Fisher was
that reliable data which would be trusted by real colonists could only be
obtained under actual conditions, putting in the human variable if you will.
Worf:  Romulans.  Could *they* not be responsible for this?  (Looks at Picard)
Or the Borg?
Data:  The Borg footprint was not detected in any of our scans of the debris.
Riker:  Data, what are you suggesting?
Picard: (interrupting) I think I know what Data is driving at, number one.  Lt.
Fisher's reaction is, perhaps understandable. Given the circumstances of her
brother's death, and then the news that her parents may have died under similar
mysterious conditions, placed her in an emotional state that would adequately
explain her actions I believe.
Riker:  Deanna, you said she was hiding something.  Could it have been that she
knew or felt that her father was somehow responsible for this incident.
Troi:  I don't think so.  She seemed so filled with anger that I believe 
she was simply reacting to what she perceived as her father calling for help 
in the person of the technician we observed in the transmission.. But why 
don't we ask her?
Picard:  An excellent suggestion.(to Data) Well done once again Commander!  
Your keen observation of human behavior is noted (Data nods, a certain look of
satisfaction on his face).  Mr. Worf, any response to our attempts at contact
with Janfac 1?
Worf:  No, sir.  (Worf's hands play over the console in front of him) No
indication that any of our messages have been received.
Picard:  Anything on long range sensors, Mr. Data.
Data: Negative, sir.  Nothing unusual within sensor range.  
However, sir, Janfac 1 is out of sensor range.
(LaForge enters the bridge)
Riker:  I know its unlikely, Captain, but some of those rocks out there are
huge.  The station on Cafferty was mostly deep underground.  Its possible that
part of the station might have survived the breakup.  If so, perhaps some of 
the recording devices are still intact.  Recommend we do a thorough search for 
anything that might be from the station.
LaF:  I agree, Captain.  The low intensity Berthold emissions could have
effected our high resolution scans.  I can adjust for that and do a complete 
survey in about 15 minutes.
Picard:  Make it so.  Number one, I'd like you to visit our helmsman and see
what you can find out about this from her.  If she is holding something back, I
want to know what it is.
Riker:  On my way, Captain. 
Picard:  Mr. Data, see if you can find out any more on the destruction of the
outpost near the Neutral Zone.  Use a priority channel to query Starbase 14 if
you think they would have more complete records of these former incidents.
Data:  Yes sir.  Unfortunately, a subspace message will take almost 47 minutes
and 21 seconds to travel to Starbase 14 and there is no Federation record
depository nearer than that.
Picard:  (slightly annoyed) I am aware of that, Data.  Proceed.
Data:  (a hint of resignation) Aye sir.
(Cut to corridor on the Enterprise, Troi is walking, heading for sick bay, she
enters sick bay and finds Dr. Crusher sitting at a console, reading a medical
journal article on Berthold radiation)
Crusher:   Deanna? What brings you here?
Troi:  I'd to talk to you about something.
(Troi glances at a technician in the room)
Crusher:  (glancing from Troi to her assistant)  I see. (Crusher stands and
motions to Troi to follow.  They move to an examining room.)  Well what can 
I do for you Counselor?
Troi:  You know that Will, Commander Riker, was on Janfac 1 for several days
negotiating the mining treaty for the Federation? (the Dr. nods)  Well, 
I thought that he would enjoy a little relaxation when he came back aboard 
ship, so I arranged for some holodeck scenery that would remind him of home.  
It was just going to be a picnic in the mountains. (she pauses)
Crusher:  But something else happened, I take it.  Go on.
Troi:  Well,  when he came through the entrance, it seemed as though he was 
the Will Riker I knew years ago.  I'm afraid that I was a little startled by 
the intensity of his feeling.  Suddenly, it was almost as though we had both 
slipped back to another time when, well, when things were different.
Crusher:  Deanna, why are you worried?  Did you sense something was wrong about
this?  
Troi:  No. . . not wrong, but . . . different.  Its difficult to explain.  I'm
sorry.
Crusher:  Now you've got me worried.  1st officer of the Enterprise, acting
strangely.  And something out there that eats planets for breakfast.  I think
I'll spend some time on the bridge.  I can examine Will Riker and see if 
it *is* Will Riker.  (Troi and Crusher stare at each other with some 
apprehension from the implication of Crusher's remark)
(Cut to Riker standing in front of Fisher's cabin.  Riker touches the attention
panel- the doors open- Fisher is sitting at a table, her head resting on her
hands)
Riker:  I'm sorry if I disturbed you Lt., but I need to ask you a few 
questions.
(Fisher appears to be startled from some reverie - she stands at attention -
Riker motions her to sit down)  Lt.,  I know this has been hard on you, 
with the news about your parents.  I ...(Fisher cuts him off)
Fisher:  Sir, I have no excuse for my actions.  I am ready to face the
consequences.
Riker:  (Patiently) Lt.  you're a fine officer.  You could have your own ship
some day.  But I think you know something about all this you're not telling us.
The first rule of any Starfleet commander is honesty.  With himself, and his
crew. 
Fisher: (hesitates, then begins slowly) I don't know what caused the 
destruction.
(pauses, Riker let's her think about it)  But I think my 
father might have suspected something.  It was
something he said to me about Roger, my brother, the last time we spoke.
Something about making amends for sending him to his death.  He never 
really got over it.  Roger was his, well, (she smiles) his little boy.  
It was harder on him than anyone knew when Roger was lost.  He was never 
the same.  He lost interest in his work.  My mother carried him after that, 
wrote papers and put his name on them, wrote his speeches.  He is -was- a 
brilliant man, but he just didn't care after my brother died. (she drops 
her head-emotion overcomes her-she continues).  Then this Parkin project
came along.  My mother said that he seemed to snap out of it, regain his 
old enthusiasm for his work.  He pushed very hard for this particular 
location. Just before they left the Directorate headquarters on Mars he 
told me that he was going to find out what happened to Roger.  He wouldn't 
say anything more when I asked what he meant, he wouldn't tell me anything 
more just that he would let me know when there was more definite information.
I assumed he was saying that he would complete Roger's work.  
But now, I wonder. (she looks a Riker) That's all I know, sir. 
(Cut to engineering- LaForge and several others are watching readouts on a wall
screen)
LaF:  (LaForge touches his comm badge)  Captain, I don't know how, but someone
is alive out there. 
Picard:  Explain.
LaF:  Apparently part of the outpost on Cafferty's planet survived with 
pressure integrity intact, and someone is still inside!
Picard:  Give the transporter chief the coordinates and beam whoever it is on
board as soon as possible.
LaForge:  Aye sir.  Transmitting coordinates now.
(Cut to bridge)
Picard:  (Touches comm badge)  Dr. Crusher.  Meet me in transporter room 3 with
a medical team immediately.
Crusher:  Understood, Crusher out.
Picard:  (still using comm link) Number 1, bring Lt. Fisher to transporter 
room 3 *now* (the tone indicates to Riker that questions will not be 
entertained yet)
Riker:  Yes, sir. On our way now.
Picard:  Mr. Worf.  Will you join me in transporter room 3?  Mr. Data.  
You have the bridge. (Picard and Worf move to leave, Data moves from his 
console to the center seat)
(Cut to transporter room 3.  Picard, Riker, Worf, O'Brien, Fisher, 
Troi, Crusher and two assistants are waiting)
Picard:  Whenever you're ready, Mr. O'Brien.
O'Brien:  Energizing now, sir.
(The blue translucence of the transporter beam appears and a prone human figure
takes shape in it.  A man appears, laying on his back, as though asleep.)
Fisher:  (gasps) Father!  (Moves forward but it restrained by Picard.)
Picard:  Doctor.
Crusher:  I want a tricorder reading first. (she scans the patient
for a few moments, then approaches and takes a small device from her belt and
holds it over the man's chest.  She turns to Picard.)
Well, he's alive.  Suffering from dehydration, malnutrition and exhaustion.  No
broken bones, a few bruises.  He's asleep.  Let's let him rest.  I can correct
the electrolyte imbalances and bring the blood sugar level to normal range in
about 30 minutes.  I think you can safely question him for a few minutes then.
(Picard nods.  Crusher,to her assistants:)
Bring the stretcher.  (Crusher injects the man with a mile sedative, and 
they gently put him on the stretcher and guide it out of the room)
Picard:  (touches comm link)  Mr. LaForge, is it safe beam back over to our
guest's home?
(Cut to engineering)
LaForge:  It looks like the place is sealed.  The air is none to good, but we
can use the small masks.  Its dark over there, and there is very little
gravitational effect.  We can equip for that.  Yes, we can get over there 
if you want to, Captain.
Picard: (aside-voice lowered)  No, a, other life forms show up?
LaF:  (at first a puzzled look, then recognition) Nothing, sir.  No evidence
that anyone else might have been with him.
Picard:  Number 1, select an away team and find out what you can until 
our guest comes to.  Lt. Fisher, you may accompany Dr. Crusher to sick bay.
Riker:  Data, Geordi, would you join Worf and me in transporter room 3?
And Geordi, bring the portable broad beam lamps and air supplies.  Let's
make this as pleasant as possible.
Geordi: I hear you, sir.

(To be continued, sometime)
--
           
EMail:  smithw@hamblin.math.byu.edu  or  uunet!hamblin.math.byu.edu!smithw
SMail:          Math Dept. -- 314 TMCB; BYU; Provo, UT 84602 (USA)
NeXTmail:                   smithw@mathnx.math.byu.edu
Phone:            +1 801 378 2061         FAX:  +1 801 378 2800


Article 263 of alt.startrek.creative:
Path: ariel.unm.edu!news.cs.indiana.edu!spool.mu.edu!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!hamblin.math.byu.edu!news
From: smithw@hamblin.math.byu.edu (Dr. William V. Smith)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: Part 2 of TNG meets the Doomsday Machines
Message-ID: <SMITHW.91Feb27110335@hamblin.hamblin.math.byu.edu>
Date: 27 Feb 91 17:03:35 GMT
Article-I.D.: hamblin.SMITHW.91Feb27110335
Sender: news@hamblin.math.byu.edu (Usenet News)
Organization: Brigham Young University
Lines: 229

Well I had some unexpected hour of free time last night so I put 
together the next part of this thing....hope you enjoy it.

Part II  TNG meets the Doomsday Machines

View of Enterprise, holding position near a large field of asteroids, many are
apparently much larger than NCC-1701D.
Captains log: Subspace communications seemed to indicate that Janfac 1 was under
attack, but transmission was interrupted before any information could be passed
to us.  I relayed what data we had to the USS Hood, which is 1 hour and 53
minutes from Janfac 1.  The Enterprise is holding position beside what appears to
be more debris from the unexplained breakup of Cafferty's planet in one the
Parkin systems.

Cut to view of bridge crew.  Troi enters from right.
Picard:  Lt. Fisher,  I need an explanation of this behavior.
Fisher:  I -  I . . . I'm sorry sir,  I don't know what came over me.
Picard: (clearly angry) Lt., you'll have to do better than that.  
As of now, you are confined to quarters.
Fisher:  Yes sir. (Leaves, avoids the gaze of all).
Riker: (to Picard) Well, what do you make of that?
Picard:  Counselor?
Troi:  I sensed confusion and anger, but also that she was concealing something.
Data:  If I may interrupt, sir, I believe I may have found an answer in my
search of Starfleet records.
Picard:  Go on Mr. Data.
Data:  Starfleet records indicate that Lt. Fisher's family on both her mother
and father's side have a long history of being involved in projects at the
frontiers of Federation space.  Her grandmother on the maternal side was one of
the original colony members on Seldon's planet and survived the plague there.
Her great grand father (Picard interrupts)
Picard:  Yes, yes Data.  How does this bear on the present situation.
Data:  As I was trying to explain sir, her parents are Drs. James and Maria
Fisher.  (Riker interrupts)
Riker:  James Fisher.  Didn't he have something to do with the breakthrough on
cultivation of grains on porous rock?  I seem to remember that there was a
problem with the trial run on one of the moons of Rigel 9.  Some of his staff
complained about Fisher's conduct when supplies ran short.  Several of his
assistants were missing when a starship finally checked up on them.
Data:  Commander Riker is correct Captain.  James Fisher was demoted from his
position as chief of field operations for the Federation Agricultural Science
Directorate.  Later he was criticized widely among his colleagues for allegedly
  inventing
data to support his rather arcane hypotheses on the growth of plant life in the
presence of various kinds of ionizing radiation.  (Data observes Picard
grimacing-Data's expression seems to show a bit of disappointment)  
My search has also revealed two other instances of  mysterious
destruction of planetary systems.
The first took place nearly a century ago,  and involved the original
Enterprise, captained by one James Kirk.  They encountered an apparently ancient
machine which actually destroyed some inhabited systems.
Picard:  Excerpts from James Kirk's logs and memoirs are required reading at 
command school.  He was one of the finest commanders ever to be part of 
Starfleet. And the other instance?
Data:  The other instance is more recent.  It took place 12 years ago in the
Cordon system.  An outpost on a planetoid near the Romulan Neutral Zone was
destroyed.  (Data pauses)  It was a science outpost testing
growth properties of genetically altered grains, under extreme actual conditions.
The station was established by the order of James Fisher.  His son was part of
the team at the station.  Records of the incident are incomplete and the
investigation was inconclusive.
Riker: Why run those kind of risks for the sake of testing food growth?  Surely
those kinds of conditions can be duplicated in Federation laboratories.
Data:  The philosophy of the field operations division under James Fisher was 
that reliable data which would be trusted by real colonists could only be
obtained under actual conditions, putting in the human variable if you will.
Worf:  Romulans.  Could *they* not be responsible for this?  (Looks at Picard)
Or the Borg?
Data:  The Borg footprint was not detected in any of our scans of the debris.

Riker:  Data, what are you suggesting?
Picard: (interrupting) I think I know what Commander 
Data is driving at, number one.  Lt. Fisher's reaction 
is, perhaps understandable. Given the circumstances of her
brother's death, and then the news that her parents may have died under similar
mysterious conditions, placed her in an emotional state that would adequately
explain her actions I believe.
Riker:  Deanna, you said she was hiding something.  Could it have been that she
knew or felt that her father was somehow responsible for this incident?
Troi:  I don't think so.  She seemed so filled with anger that I believe she was
simply reacting to what she perceived as her father calling for help in the
person of the technician. But why don't we ask her?
Picard:  An excellent suggestion.(to Data) Well done once again Commander!  
Your keen observation of human behavior is noted (Data nods, a certain look of
satisfaction on his face).  Mr. Worf, any response to our attempts at contact
with Janfac 1?
Worf:  No, sir.  (Worf's hands play over the console in front of him) No
indication that any of our messages have been received.
Picard:  Anything on long range sensors, Mr. Data.
Data: Negative, sir.  Nothing unusual within sensor range.  However sir, Janfac 1
is out of sensor range.
(LaForge enters the bridge)
Riker:  I know its unlikely, Captain, but some of those rocks out there are
huge.  The station on Cafferty was mostly deep underground.  Its possible that
part of the station might have survived the breakup.  If so, perhaps some of the
recording devices are still intact.  Recommend we do a thorough search for anything
that could be from the station.
LaF:  I agree, Captain.  The low intensity Berthold emissions could have
effected our sensor scans.  I can adjust for that and do a complete survey in
about 15 minutes.
Picard:  Make it so.  Number one, I'd like you to visit our helmsman and see
what you can find out about this from her.  If she is holding something back, I
want to know what it is.
Riker:  On my way, Captain. (Riker leaves)
Picard:  Mr. Data, see if you can find out any more on the destruction of the
outpost near the Neutral Zone.  Use a priority channel to query Starbase 14 if
you think they would have more complete records of these former incidents.
Data:  Yes sir.  Unfortunately, a subspace message will take almost 47 minutes
and 21 seconds to travel to Starbase 14 and there is no Federation record
depository nearer than that.
Picard:  (slightly annoyed) I am aware of that, Data.  Proceed.
Data:  (a hint of resignation) Aye sir.
(Cut to corridor on the Enterprise, Troi is walking, heading for sick bay, she
enters sick bay and finds Dr. Crusher sitting at a console, reading a medical
journal article on Berthold radiation)
Crusher:   Deanna? What brings you here?
Troi:  I want to talk to you about something that happened earlier.
(Troi glances at a technician in the room)
Crusher:  (glancing from Troi to her assistant)  I see. (Crusher stands and
motions to Troi to follow.  They move to an examining room.)  Well what can I do
for you Counselor?
Troi:  You know that Will, Commander Riker, was on Janfac 1 for several days
negotiating the mining treaty for the Federation? (the Dr. nods)
  Well, I thought that he would
enjoy a little relaxation when he came back aboard ship, so I arranged for some
holodeck scenery that would remind him of home.  It was just going to be a
picnic in the mountains. (she pauses)
Crusher:  But something else happened I take it.  Go on.
Troi:  Well,  when he came through the entrance, it seemed like he was the Will
Riker I knew years ago.  I'm afraid that I was a little startled by the
intensity of his feeling.  Suddenly, it was almost as though we had both slipped
back to another time when, well, when things were different.
Crusher:  Deanna, why are you worried?  Did you sense something was wrong about
this?  
Troi:  No. . . not wrong, but . . . different.  Its difficult to explain.  I'm
sorry.
Crusher:  Now you've got me worried.  1st officer of the Enterprise, acting
strangely.  And something out there that eats planets for breakfast.  I think
I'll spend some time on the bridge.  I can examine Will Riker and see if it *is*
Will Riker.  (Troi and Crusher stare at each other with some apprehension from
the implication of Crusher's remark)
(Cut to Riker standing in front of Fisher's cabin.  Riker touches the attention
panel- the doors open- Fisher is sitting at a table, her head resting on her
hands)
Riker:  I'm sorry if I disturbed you Lt., but I need to ask you a few questions.
(Fisher appears to be startled from some reverie - she stands at attention -
Riker motions her to sit down)  Lt.,  I know this has been hard on you, with the
news about your parents.  I ...(Fisher cuts him off)
Fisher:  Sir, I have no excuse for my actions.  I am ready to face the
consequences.
Riker:  (Patiently) Lt.  you're a fine officer.  You could have your own ship
some day.  But I think you know something about all this you're not telling us.
The first rule of any Starfleet commander is honesty.  With himself, and his
crew. 
Fisher: (hesitates, then begins slowly) I don't know what caused the destruction.
(pauses, Riker let's her think about it)  But I think my
father might have suspected something.  It was
something he said to me about Roger, my brother, the last time we spoke.
Something about making amends for sending him to his death.  He never really got
over it.  Roger was his, well, (she smiles) his little boy.  It was harder on
him than anyone knew when Roger was lost.  He was never the same.  He lost
interest in his work.  My mother carried him after that, wrote papers and put
his name on them, wrote his speeches.  He is-was- a brilliant man, but he just
didn't care after my brother died. (she drops her head-emotion overcomes her-
Riker lets her pull herself together-she continues) But when this Parkin project
came up, my mother said he seemed to snap out of it, regain his old enthusiasm.
Before they left the Directorate station on Mars, he told me that he was going
to find out what happened to Roger.  When I asked him what he meant, he said he
would tell me when there was more definite information.  That's all I know sir.
(Cut to engineering- LaForge and several others are watching readouts on a wall
screen)
LaF:  (LaForge touches his comm badge)  Captain, I don't know how, but someone
is alive out there.
Picard:  Explain.
LaF:  Apparently part of the outpost on Cafferty's planet survived with pressure
integrity intact, and someone is still inside!
Picard:  Give the transporter chief the coordinates and beam whoever it is on
board as soon as possible.
LaForge:  Aye sir.  Transmitting coordinates now.
(Cut to bridge)
Picard:  (Touches comm badge)  Dr. Crusher.  Meet me in transporter room 3 with
a medical team immediately.
Crusher:  Understood, Crusher out.
Picard:  (still using comm link) Number 1, bring Lt. Fisher to transporter room
3 *now* (the tone indicates to Riker that questions will not be entertained now)
Riker:  Yes, sir. On our way now.
Picard:  Mr. Worf.  Will you join me in transporter room 3?  Mr. Data.  You have
the bridge. (Picard and Worf move to leave, Data moves from his console
to the center seat)
(Cut to transporter room 3.  Picard, Riker, Worf, O'Brien, Fisher, Troi, Crusher
and two assistants are waiting)
Picard:  Whenever you're ready Mr. O'Brien.
O'Brien:  Energizing now, sir.
(The blue translucence of the transporter beam appears and a prone human figure
takes shape in it.  A man appears, laying on his back, as though asleep.)
Fisher:  (gasps) Father!  (Moves forward but it restrained by Picard.)
Picard:  Doctor.
Crusher:  I want a tricorder reading first. (she scans the patient
for a few moments, then approaches and takes a small device from her belt and
holds it over the man's  chest.  She turns to Picard.)
Well, he's alive.  Suffering from dehydration, malnutrition and exhaustion.  No
broken bones, a few bruises.  He's asleep.  Let's let him rest.  I can correct
the electrolyte imbalances and bring the blood sugar level to normal range in
about 30 minutes.  I think you can safely question him then.
(Picard nods.  Crusher,to her assistants:)
Bring the stretcher.  
Picard:  (touches comm link)  Mr. LaForge, is it safe to beam back over to our
guest's home?
LaForge:  It looks like the place is sealed.  The air is none to good, but we
can use the small masks.  Its dark over there, and there is very little
gravitational effect.  We can equip for that.  Yes, we can get over there if you
want to, Captain.
Picard:  (aside) No, a, other life forms show up?
LaF:  (at first a puzzeled look, then recognition) Nothing, sir.  No evidence
that anyone else might have been with him.
Picard:  Number 1, select an away team and find out what you can until our guest
comes to.  Lt. Fisher, you may accompany Dr. Crusher to sick bay.
Riker: (over comm link) Data, Jordy, would you join Worf and me in transporter room 3?


(To be continued, sometime)








--
           
EMail:  smithw@hamblin.math.byu.edu  or  uunet!hamblin.math.byu.edu!smithw
SMail:          Math Dept. -- 314 TMCB; BYU; Provo, UT 84602 (USA)
NeXTmail:                   smithw@mathnx.math.byu.edu
Phone:            +1 801 378 2061         FAX:  +1 801 378 2800


Article 298 of alt.startrek.creative:
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Path: ariel.unm.edu!news.cs.indiana.edu!sdd.hp.com!caen!sol.ctr.columbia.edu!hamblin.math.byu.edu!news
From: smithw@hamblin.math.byu.edu (Dr. William V. Smith)
Subject: MORE TNG vs. the Doomsday Machines
Organization: Brigham Young University
Date: 7 Mar 91 12:23:41
Message-ID: <SMITHW.91Mar7122341@hamblin.hamblin.math.byu.edu>
Lines: 170
Sender: news@hamblin.math.byu.edu (Usenet News)

I apologize again for dribbling more of this along, but I
keep getting requests for it even though I warned you
I would be unable to really finish it for some time.
[So why did I start posting it in the first place?
- it's not my fault, things come up]  This piece starts
more or less where the last one left off, with just a 
touch of a rewrite at the joining point.  A few bits
of the first part have been rewritten too, I'll post
it if the story is ever completed.  So here's a few 
more pages:

(The blue translucence of the transporter beam appears and 
a prone human figure takes shape in it.  A man appears, 
laying on his back, as though asleep.)
Fisher:  (gasps) Father!  (Moves forward but is restrained 
by Picard.)
Picard:  Doctor.
Crusher:  I want a tricorder reading first. (she scans the 
patient for a few moments, then approaches and takes a small 
device from her belt and holds it over the man's chest.  
She turns to Picard.) Well, he's alive.  Suffering from 
dehydration, malnutrition and exhaustion.  No
broken bones, a few bruises.  He's asleep.  Let's let him rest.  
I can correct the electrolyte imbalances and bring the blood sugar 
level to normal range in about 30 minutes.  I think you can 
safely question him then. (Picard nods.  Crusher,to her assistants:)
Bring the stretcher.  (Crusher injects the man with a mild 
sedative, and they gently put him on the stretcher and the 
Doctor appears to be  monitoring him)
Picard:  (touches comm link)  Mr. LaForge, is it safe to beam back 
over to our guest's home?
LaForge:  It looks like the place is sealed.  The air is none 
to good, but we can use the small masks.  Its dark over there, 
and there is very little gravitational effect.  We can equip for 
that.  Yes we can get over there if you want to, Captain.
Picard: (aside-voice lowered)  No, a, other life forms show up?
LaF:  (at first a puzzled look, then recognition) Nothing, sir.  
No evidence that anyone else might have been with him.
Picard:  Number one, select an away team and find out what 
you can until our guest comes to.  Lt. Fisher, you may accompany 
Dr. Crusher to sick bay. (They are guiding the stretcher out of 
the room)
Riker:  Data, Geordi, would you join Worf and me in transporter 
room 3? And Geordi, bring the portable broad beam lamps and 
atmosphere stablizers.  Let's make this as pleasant as possible.
LaF: I hear you, sir.  (Barclay is standing near LaForge- Geordi 
turns to him) Well Lt., did you have any success with your 
simulations?
Barclay:  I...I can't say sir.  What I mean is, I wasn't able to 
finish scanning the information we have from the Captain's link with 
Commander Data.
LaF:  Keep at it Lt.  I want to see some results when I get 
back from that asteroid hotel
(gestures to scan image of what is a portion of the former 
underground complex serving the ag station on Cafferty)
Barclay: Y..Yes, sir.  (Barclay leaves)
LaF:  (taps comm badge)  Commander Riker,  I recommend we use  
the Enterprise to stabilize the movment of our destination.  It's 
tumbling pretty badly, and who knows what is floating around over 
there.  We can induce a low gravity field while we're at it so we can 
stand on the "floor".
Riker:  Fine, Geordi.  Let's make it quick.  The Captain wants us 
back here in an hour.
Captains Log:  Stardate  blahblah.  An extraordinary thing has 
happened.  Apparently, the debris we have now encountered twice, 
actually comes from Cafferty's planet in the Parkin systems.  We 
have found a survivior in the person of Dr. James Fisher,a former 
high-ranking officer of the Ferderation Agricultural 
Science Directorate.  He, his wife and 43 others were conducting 
experiments when some catastrophe caused the destruction of the 
world on which they were living.  Commander Riker has assembled 
an away team to find out what happened to Cafferty and how 
Dr. Fisher was able to survive.

Riker:  (speaking from transporter room 3 to Picard on the bridge)
Sir, we're ready to beam over now.  I'll let you know as soon as 
we find anything.
Picard: Right, number one.  Mr. O'Brien, maintain transporter lock 
on the away team and be ready to beam them back aboard.
O'Brien:  Aye, sir.
(Riker moves to the transporter pads where Worf, Data and Geordi are standing)
Riker:  Anytime, Mr. O'Brien
O'Brien:  Yes, sir. (moves hands over console and the familiar 
whine of the transporter is heard- the away team shimmers and 
disappears) (The transporter beam fades in from complete darkness 
on what's left of  an underground tube approximately 25 ft. in 
diameter.  The away team materializes on  what was an intermediate 
floor of the station, covered with flotsam- a mixture of odds and 
ends of pieces of furniture, eating utensils, clothing and other 
unidentifiable items which nevertheless look like they might be parts 
of things that could be found in a typical apartment living room.  
Except the walls of the living room are covered with brown mold
and drip with moisture.  As the transporter beam fades, the lights 
the team brought with them illuminate the darkness with a bright 
but non-glaring glow.   
LaF:  Wow!  Whoever's been occupying this hole should have their 
lease revoked.  Smells like the  odor caves we explored on Pacifica 
last year.
Data:  Am I right in assuming that you find the aroma distasteful, Geordi?
LaF:  You can say that again, Data.  Seems our friend couldn't be very 
picky about waste disposal, not to mention food storage or air 
purification.  He's an awful lucky man.
Riker:  All right you two,  find out what you can here and then 
head to the lower floors.  Worf and I will move to the upper levels.  
Keep your communicators open, and report anything of significance to 
me.  Understood?  You're on alert status gentlemen.
LaF:  Commander, are we looking for anything in particular?
Riker:  The Captain wants to know how this man survived and what 
happened to Cafferty's planet.  Anything out of the ordinary could 
be a clue.  Keep your eyes pealed.
Data:  If I may ask sir, what does such a painful abuse of the organ 
of sight have to do with our mission?
Riker: (smiles broadly- Worf turns his head so that they cannot 
see his mouth twitching).  It's an expression Data.  It means to 
be watchful.
Data:  Ah.  Watchful. Vigilant, wide-awake, alert, on the lookout 
for danger or opportunity.  Carefully observant or attentive as in 
being "on the watch".  I believe I understand, sir. 
LaF:  (smiling) Data, you take tri-corder readings, while I tune 
the atmosphere stabilizers.  It's a little humid in here for my taste.
Data:   Yes Commander, and . . . keep your eyes pealed.(LaForge laughs)
(cut to sick bay.  Picard enters.  Troi and Crusher are standing near 
the far wall, Crusher is monitoring a panel.  Lt. Fisher is standing 
beside her unconscious father, holding his hand.)
Picard:  Anything further on our patient, Beverly?
Crusher:  He seems to be responding well.  He's in excellent condition 
considering what he must have gone through.  I'll let you know if 
there's any change.  (Crusher notes that Picard seems to be staring 
at her- when he notices she has observed him and he still does not 
avert his gaze, she blushes and stammers)  Anything else, sir?
Picard:  (seems to snap out of it- adjusts his suit- and clears his throat)  
No. Doctor, carry on.  (Picard turns to leave, but stops in mid stride 
and turns around.)  Come to think of it, Doctor, there is something.  
Could I have a word with you privately?
Crusher:  (Glances quickly at Troi who is eyeing the Captain)  
Certainly, sir.  (she gestures to a door and they both enter.  
The door closes byhind them, and Crusher turns to face Picard.)  
What can I do for you Jean-Luc?  (Picard says nothing, but moves 
closer to her, he seems nervous but does not take his eyes from 
her- suddenly, he grasps her and draws her to him and they kiss- 
she is clearly startled by this but is also clearly responding- 
just as suddenly, Picard appears to stop himself and with some 
effort releases her and she- somewhat reluctantly - follows suit..)
Picard:  (brushes his brow with his hand- speaks with some effort)  
I -   I'm sorry Be - Doctor, I don't know what came over me.  Please 
excuse me. (He turns with effort and then hurries out - the door barely 
opens quickly enough to keep him from smashing into it.  Crusher stares 
after him, dumbfounded.)
(Cut to the outpost fragment, to Riker and Worf coming through an 
exit hatch in a floor bulkhead several levels above where they first 
beamed aboard-the walls and floor are dripping with condensed 
moisture-the mold appears to be much thicker here-the two officers
exhalations are visible in the flashlight beams-everything is slippery
Riker is clearly a little uncomfortable with having the mold from 
the ladder rungs on his hands).
Worf:(slowly plays his flashlight around)  
This appears to be more of the same, Commander.  No evidence 
of anyone else having been here.  ( they step over a mound of misc. 
items and look about.) It *smells* like Dr. Fisher used this room 
for-  to relieve himself.  I believe that this is the topmost surviving
level according to our scan.  Dr. Fisher must have maintained 
this room as a waste depository to keep the rest of the station 
less contaminated.  Clearly an exceptional man to have demonstrated 
discipline under these conditions.
Riker:  I think your right Lt.  I doubt that we'll find anything 
of importance here.  Check the hatch up there (Riker points his 
flashlight to the ceiling along the emergency exit ladder they 
have been climbing).  

(To be continued, sometime)
--
           
EMail:  smithw@hamblin.math.byu.edu  or  uunet!hamblin.math.byu.edu!smithw
SMail:          Math Dept. -- 314 TMCB; BYU; Provo, UT 84602 (USA)
NeXTmail:                   smithw@mathnx.math.byu.edu
Phone:            +1 801 378 2061         FAX:  +1 801 378 2800


