Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!hobbes.physics.uiowa.edu!math.ohio-state.edu!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: H601HUC@SEMOVM.SEMO.EDU (Jenny)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: Fantasy Meets Reality pt 1
Date: 6 May 1994 11:17:33 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 814
Sender: daemon@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <06MAY94.12187031.0034.MUSIC@SEMOVM>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cs.utexas.edu

I had a lot of fun writing this story.  If you get deja vu, I used
some of "Julian's Christmas Present," but that's ok, because it's
mine too!  Hope you enjoy it.

All rights reserved.  Copyright @1994 by Jennifer Shipp.  Characters
copyrighted by Paramount.  Permission to spread this all over the
internet granted, as long as this heading remains a part of it.

**Thanks to Bren for her help***

"Fantasy Meets Reality" by Jennifer Shipp

Part 1

The Promenade had a ghostly feel to it.  A solitary light spilled
into the darkness.  Quark's was the last business to close for the
night. Only a few customers remained.  A forlorn figure in a Starfleet
uniform sat off by himself, slouched over his drink.  Quark was
clearing out the last of the stragglers when he noticed the officer.
He shook his head and walked over to his table.

"No luck?"

Doctor Julian Bashir looked up in surprise.  "I beg your pardon?"

Quark slid into the chair opposite him.  "I saw you with Lieutenant
Dax earlier.  Only a woman's rejection could cause misery like that.
And only a woman like Jadzia Dax could cause a man to drink 3 Klingon
T'klars."  A visible shudder went through Quark.

"It's that obvious?" Julian unenthusiastically asked.

When Quark answered, "To me it is," Julian slumped further.

"Because you're a bartender, and you're supposed to notice what your
customers moods are?," he asked a bit sarcastically.

"No.  Because I haven't had any luck with her, either.  But you don't
see me giving up, do you?"

Julian shook his head.  "No, but I'm about ready to.  The most exciting,
beautiful woman on the station, and she thinks I'm too young for her.
It's hopeless."  Julian almost slumped right out of his chair.  His
despair touched Quark, who could sympathize.

"Look.  Lieutenant Dax will probably never think of me as anything
other than a friend to play Tongo with.  But does that stop me?
No.  I once took her to a holosuite, did you know that?"

Julian sat up at that one.  "She went to a *holosuite*?  With you?,"
he asked incredulously.  He shook his head.  "You're making that up.
She would never..."

"But she did.  And if I can get her up to a holosuite, just imagine
what you could do."  Quark sat back with his hands folded on the table.
He was watching the doctor's expression change from utter despair to
one of faint hope.  He managed a thin smile.

"I guess I could try again.  It's just that after 2 years, you think
*something* would have happened by now."  He glanced at his glass.
"Besides, I think it's more the T'klars talking than me.  I'll have
a helluva headache in the morning," he added wryly.

Quark shifted nervously in his seat.  "Uh, doctor, you won't have
a headache in the morning.  Klingon beverages are different than
what you're used to."

Julian shot him a questioning look. "How do you mean?"

"Well, they don't have the effects of regular beverages.  T'klar
is known for it's....stimulating effects."

Julian's eyes widened as he picked up his glass and looked at the
remaining liquid.  "Just what do you mean by that?"

"Well, I've only seen 3 or 4 humans drink those, and they have all
been very....popular the next day.  With the opposite sex."

Realization of just what Quark was saying dawned on his face.
Julian fixed him with a gaze that could have stopped a planet from
revolving.  "Are you telling me this," he indicated his glass,
"produces pheromones????," each word slid through clenched teeth.

Quark started to slide out of his seat, ready to run.  "Well, I'm
not exactly sure.  I do know it only lasts 24 hours.  I really
have to close up now."

"Quark, I'm not finished with you yet..." Julian threatened menacingly.

Quark slid out of his seat and bounded for the bar.  "Closing time,
everyone OUT!," he almost yelled, staying as far from the doctor as
possible.

Julian looked again at his empty glass, thoughts swirling through his
mind.  _I can't believe Quark didn't warn me.  'Stimulating effects'..
'opposite sex...'_.  A plan began to formulate in his mind.  _Maybe
tomorrow won't be so bad_.  He decided to let Quark off the
hook...for now.  He left Quark's, the intricacies of his plan working
themselves out in his mind.  As possible scenarios tumbled through
his mind, a slow, sly smile formed on his lips.  He knew he would have
good dreams that night.

Part 2

NEXT DAY:

Julian awoke feeling no different.  He expected to feel *something*
different, but nothing.  He wonder briefly if Quark was lying,
but dismissed that with a shrug.  If there was no profit in it,
he wouldn't have bothered.  He spent a bit more time getting ready
that morning, just in case.  He brought his plan into his thoughts
again, a smile playing about his lips.

He met Dax on his way to the infirmary. _Phase 1, ready_.
"Good morning, Jadzia," he greeted her brightly. "Sleep well?"

"Good morning, Julian," she answered pleasantly.  "Yes, I slept fine.
You're in a good mood today," she observed.

He gave her a lopsided grin.  "I've never felt better."  He was acting
like he had a secret that he was dying to tell.

"There's something different about you today."  She gave him the
once over.  "Are you expecting something to happen?"

He could barely suppress his laughter. _If only you knew_. "No.
Today should be quite dull.  I have to analyze some samples from
Bajor.  They want to check the water supply from the northern
continent."

They both stepped into the turbolift and gave their destinations.

"So," he began brightly, turning to her, "do you have a lot
to do today?"

She smiled at him and shook her head slightly.  "It's pretty much
routine by now.  Nothing spectacular."

The turbolift halted for Julian's stop.  "This is where I get
off.  I'll see you later, Jadzia."  He walked toward the
infirmary, Jadzia keeping her eyes on him all the way.  "Resume,"
when he was out of her sight.

__________________
Julian was engrossed in some data when he heard the
infirmary doors open. "I'll be with you in just a minute,"
he called in to the other room.  He continued tapping the
computer when he felt hands begin to massage his neck.  He
closed his eyes, a small sigh escaping from his lips.
He leaned back in his chair, completely caught up in the
moment.  He opened his eyes to find Jadzia watching him
intently.

"Jadzia," his voice registered surprise.

"Didn't know I could give killer back rubs, did you?," she smiled
down at him.

He edged away from her.  "Umm, no.  But thanks."  His breathing
slowly returned to normal. _Phase 2, ready to start_.  He looked
at her with a quizzical expression.  "What can I do for you?"

"I just wanted to see if you needed any help with that
analysis you were talking about," she tried to reach for his hair.

"Thanks, but I'm almost done."  He flashed her a smile and
continued to work.  When she didn't say anything for a minute, he
looked up.  "Was there something else?"  He turned around to study
her expression.

"No, I was just watching you work.  You get the cutest expression
when you're concentrating."

_Oh, boy_ he thought.  "Thanks.  I always wanted to be known for my
'cute expressions',"  he said dryly.

He decided to try his luck.  "Would you care to join me
for lunch?  I've been told I have excellent conversation skills."

He couldn't believe her answer. "I'd love to.  I'll meet you at the
replimant in 10 minutes."

_Quark was RIGHT!_ he thought.  _Those Klingon T'klars _do_ work!
_I think I'm beginning to like this._  He allowed the smirk he'd
been hiding to come on full force.  "See you in 10 minutes, Jadzia."

She answered him with a blinding smile and left.

_I can't believe my good luck_ he thought to himself.  _*She's*
chasing *me*_.  Then he sobered.  _Only because of those
drinks._  He sighed.  _Since this won't last until tomorrow, I better
make the most of today. Quark said the effect would only last 24 hours.
He saved what he had been working on and headed for lunch with
Jadzia.

Julian met her at the replimant.  He chatted breezily, she sat
in rapt attention, gazing at him with adoring eyes.  He tried-
really tried- not to notice the way she was looking at him.  _Not
yet_ he told himself.

He broke off in mid-sentence.  "Jadzia."
"Hmmm?"  She apparently didn't hear him.
"Aren't you going to eat?"
"Oh." She blinked and looked down at her plate as if she never saw
it before.  She took a few bites, then continued staring at him.

"I don't know what it is about you, Julian.  You seem...different
today."  She gave him a hard look.  "Are you letting your hair
grow?"

"No, I haven't changed my hair," a twinkle in his eye.

She shrugged it off.  "I guess it's just me."

Julian tried to hide his laughter in a coughing fit.

"Are you all right?"

He caught his breath.  "I'm fine.  Really.  Just got something
stuck for a moment."

They continued eating and talking until an emergency call came
in for Julian.

"Doctor Bashir, report to the infirmary immediately."

"I'm on my way."  He gave Jadzia an apologetic smile and left.

_________________
Julian sat down for the first time in hours.  That power coupling
blowing had resulted in several injuries.  Luckily, no one was
seriously hurt.  He took a deep breath and stretched before he
started recording his medical log supplement.  He had just
finished when his comm badge signalled.

"Dax to Bashir."
His weariness disappeared.  "Bashir here."
"Julian, could you meet me in Quark's at 1900 hours?"

He tried to keep the elation out of his voice.  _Finally, a
date with her_ he screamed to himself.  "I'll be there.
Bashir out."

He sat back in his chair, pushed himself off with his foot from
the table, and twirled around.  If he had been a little
younger, he probably would have got up and danced for joy.
He couldn't wait until 1900.

Part 3

Songs included:

"Giving Him Something He Can Feel" En Vogue
"Vision Of Love" Mariah Carey
"Can I Trust You With My Heart" Travis Tritt
"Hold On To The Nights" Richard Marx
"The Lady In Red" Chris DuBurg
"I Can't Fight This Feeling" REO Speedwagon
"Lady" Kenny Rogers
"In This Life" Collin Raye
"Heaven" Brian Adams
"Now and Forever" Richard Marx
"Because the Night" 10,000 Maniacs
"Angel Eyes" The Jeff Healey Band

_______________
A low moan escaped from Julian's throat.  Those hands...her hands,
were everywhere at once.  She was kissing him, the most wildly
intoxicating kiss he'd ever experienced.  He could feel her, feel
her excitement matching his growing urgency.  Their tongues danced
wildly.  Then he was on top of her.  He was whispering her name,
"Jadzia," over and over, like a prayer.

"Did you say something?," the voice at his ear almost caused him to
jump out of his skin.  He was in the infirmary.  His assistant,
Annastacian, had her hand on his shoulder and a concerned look on her
face.

"Sorry to disturb you, doctor.  Are you all right?," she asked as she
ran her hand down his arm.

"I'm...fine.  I guess I was daydreaming," he added a bit sheepishly.
"What time is it?," he asked, trying to calm himself down.

"It's almost the end of your shift. You can go ahead.  You're not
doing anything productive here, anyway," she teased him.

"Thanks a lot," he replied, dryly.  "I think I will leave now.
See you tomorrow."

"Oh, most definitely," she called after him.  He missed the seductive
glance she shot him as he left the infirmary.

Julian smiled to himself as he slid his arms into his jacket.  He
had decided to change for his date with Jadzia.  He just got
this jacket, and felt it would impress her.  It was purplish
grey, and made a nice contrast to the crisp whiteness of his shirt.
His shirt was in the style of the day, crossed and buttoned at the
side, revealing a deep V at his neck.  The whiteness of the
shirt made his skin that much more darker; his eyes a deeper
chocolate brown.  He ran his brush one more time through his hair
and stepped back to take in the total effect.  He pulled the cuffs
of the shirt a bit more through the sleeves of the jacket, smoothed
his pants, whose color matched the jacket, and gave a nod of approval.
He couldn't believe it, but he actually had butterflies.  _This
is silly.  It's just one date, with the woman of your dreams_.
_How did I get myself into this?_ he asked his reflection.

Julian entered Quark's, oblivious to everyone.  He bumped into
Quark, who wasn't paying attention to anyone, either.

"Hi, Quark, have you seen Jadzia?."  She had asked him to be in
Quark's at 1900 hours, but had not been more specific.

Quark looked a bit flushed.  "Oh, have I seen her." he said lustfully.
Then he remembered who he was talking to.  "Umm, she should be on
in a few minutes."

"On?  On where?," Julian asked, confused.

"On stage, where else?  She's going to sing.  Why, I have no idea."
he added, before the doctor could ask.  "She reserved
a table for you, right in front."  He waved his hand in the
general direction.

"Thanks."  Julian went to the table and sat down.  The lights
dimmed, and a spotlight shown on the figure in red on
the raised dais in front of him. Julian had a perfect view
of the stage, and of Jadzia.  She was wearing a fire red
dress with a slit up to her thigh.  Her hair was piled on top of
her head, soft curls dancing over the spots on her bare shoulders.
She spoke to the band, then stepped up to the microphone.
The mellow saxophone blended with her voice as she began
"Giving Him Something He Can Feel."

Sweat broke out on his forehead as he listened to her throaty
rendition of the classic tune.  Watching her move, he wiped
his forehead.  He couldn't take his eyes off her.  He didn't
notice she was having the same effect on every male in
the room.  Quark was almost rubbing his ear off.

She finished the last strain of the last word as the music faded
softly.  She bowed as shouts of "more! more," came from the crowd.
Smiling radiantly, she whispered again to the band, who
nodded.  The soft strains of another old song were drowned out
by whistles and applause.  But when she touched the microphone,
silence fell over the crowd.  "Vision of Love" was belted out in
same manner as her first song.

The entire audience was locked on her, but Julian was the one
she fixed her gaze on the most.  He was mesmerized by her
performance.  He had no idea she had a voice like that, so low,
so throaty, so sultry.  The sweat hadn't had time to dry from
her first number, and already he was mopping his neck with a napkin.

More whistles greeted her as she finished the song.  She turned for
the last time to the band, who were beginning to look a bit flushed
themselves.  She had requested an old bar song, "Fever."  The way
she was stroking the microphone stand, the way her body was
moving to the music, Julian's breathing became sporadic.  He
started to shift uncomfortably in his seat, as was every other
man in the room.

The last note faded from her lips, and she got another standing
ovation.  She bowed and stepped of the dais.  She went straight
to Julian's table.

"This seat taken?" she asked in that same sultry voice.
"Umm, no." He stumbled to his feet.  "That was incredible.  I
didn't know you could sing." _like THAT_ he added silently.

"Thank you.  I've many talents you don't know about...yet," she
added, a seductive smile on her lips.  She slid into the chair
next to Julian, allowing him a good look at her long legs.

He swallowed hard.  He had never seen her act like this.  Not
even the 'double' Dax had acted like this.  He just stared at her
with a goofy lovestruck grin on his face.

The band started a love song, and Julian asked her if she wanted to
dance.  They danced to all the great old love songs, from
"Can I Trust You With My Heart," to "Hold On To The Nights,"
"The Lady In Red," "I Can't Fight This Feeling," "Lady,"
"In This Life," "Heaven," "Now and Forever," and "Because the Night."

Julian couldn't have picked more perfect songs if he had bribed the
band.  Throughout their dance, he nuzzled Jadzia's ear.  He had
started kissing the spots near her ear, and was slowly working his
way down.

During "Angel Eyes", Dax looked up from her comfortable place on his
his shoulder and whispered, "Julian."

"Hmm...?"  He was still caught in the moment of dancing with her,
the feel of her in his arms.

"Julian, I want to leave."

His eyes snapped open and he gazed at her incredulously. "Why?"

"I want to be with you.  Alone." she stated simply.

"Are you sure?" He _wanted_ to be sure he hadn't misread her.
He didn't have to wait long.

"Yes" she whispered breathlessly, barely an inch from his lips,
the look in her eyes unmistakable.

"Your wish is my command."  Quark watched them leave, silently
saying goodbye to Jadzia.

__________________
He woke up in the morning, feeling weighted down.  He opened his eyes
and knew the reason.  Jadzia was asleep, her head resting on his chest.
He couldn't believe he had mislead her like that.  He should have
told her about the T'klars, and the pheromones, but he had chickened
out.  He had wanted her so badly that he had lied to her.

He slid gently out from under her, careful not to wake her, and
got dressed.  With a soft "I'm sorry," he left her quarters and
returned to his own.  He was sure she would never forgive him,
that he would never be able to look her in the eye again.

Her eyelids fluttered and she stretched lazily.  Her hand reached
out to hug Julian, but she was met by the still-warm hollow he
had left.  She sat up in confusion, and with a trace of sadness
in her voice, called, "Julian?"
______________________

Part 4

Julian hid out in the infirmary, not wanting to accidentally
bump into Jadzia.  His staff had been giving him wide berth all
day, afraid that he might blow up at them.  He wandered around,
a haunted look in his eyes.  He was silently punishing himself,
alternating between hate and guilt.  He had firmly decided to
confront Jadzia a dozen times, and had firmly decided _not_ to
a dozen more.  Maybe it was better this way.  Maybe he could
transfer somewhere.  He had gotten a lot of offers upon his
graduation from Starfleet Medical Academy, maybe those contacts
could get him another assignment.  His guilt was tearing him apart.
_I can't go on like this._

His luck held.  He didn't see Jadzia all day.  He waited until he
was sure Jadzia would have returned to her quarters before leaving
the infirmary.  He let out a sigh of relief upon reaching his door.
It slid open, he stepped inside, and froze.  Jadzia was lying on
his bed, wearing, as near as he could tell, not much.

"Hello Julian."

"Jadzia, wh-what are you doing here?," he managed to stammer.

"Waiting for you," she almost purred.

He swallowed hard.  "Jadzia..."

"Yes?," she asked silkily.

He couldn't take it anymore.  Those T'klars were obviously more
potent that Quark had let on.  He had to tell her, had to tell
her *NOW*, before something happened again.  He took a deep breath,
and dropped his gaze.

"Jadzia, I have to tell you something.  Last night..."

"Was fabulous."

"Thanks," offhandedly.  He was intent on telling her what he had
done, how he had lied.  "Two nights ago I asked Quark for a drink.
Something exotic.  He gave me a Klingon T'klar.  I liked it so much,
I had 3."  He took another deep breath.  "Those drinks produce
pheromones, which caused you to act...different toward me."  He
couldn't go on.  He continued staring at the floor, his head
hung in shame.  Jadzia broke the silence.

"Julian.  Julian, look at me."

He slowly raised his head, and frowned in puzzlement at the amused
smile on her face.

"I talked to Quark after you got the call from the infirmary.  He
told me about the T'klars."

He stared at her uncomprehendingly at first, then he slowly
realized what she meant.

"So, at Quark's last night, and afterwards..."  his voice trailed
off.

"I knew exactly what I was doing," she confirmed.

Relief flooded through his body.  The guilt he had carried since waking
up that morning faded.  Then he concentrated on what she had just said
and why she was there.

"And now?," he inquired, a wicked gleam in his eye.

"Now..." She got up and walked over to him.  One finger caught in
the 'V' of his uniform near his neck and slowly pulled down.
"Computer play Jadzia program 1."  The lights dimmed, soft music
pored in, and Julian's heart sung with the songs drifting around them.

Several hours later, Julian and Jadzia were lying in bed.  She
was lying in the crook of his arm, her right leg hooked over his
left.  He had his left arm partly around her, his right tracing
patterns on her arm.  He bent his head to place a kiss on her
shoulder.

"No wonder they call you the 'good doctor'," she said wickedly.

"Is that a reference to my medical skills, or something else?"
he asked cheekily.

She rolled over until she was half-on his chest.  "I'm not telling.
You'll have to figure it out yourself."

"HEY!," she squealed as he began tickling her.  "Stop....I can't...
breathe...," she was gasping for air, trying to tickle him back.

"Not until...OUCH!...you tell me...,"  He had her pinned down now,
which wasn't easy, the way she was squirming.  "exactly what...
not _there_...you meant!"  He managed to get the whole sentence out,
despite her attack on his ticklish areas.

"NO!," she defiantly shot back, laughing as she did so.  "I'll
never tell...NO!" she gasped, as he began tickling her again.

"All right!  All right!  You win!  Just STOP!,"  she gasped,
trying to catch her breath.  He was panting just as hard as she
was.  "Ok...ok...you're the best doctor...on DS-9!," she pushed
against his chest with all her strength, and managed to wiggle
out from under him.  She grasped his arm and flipped him over.
Now she was pinning him down.

He tried to catch his breath, surprised she had gotten the upper hand.
"I demand you let me up."

"I don't think you're in any position to 'demand' anything, my 'good
doctor'," she smiled slyly.

"Oh yeah?." He grabbed her shoulders and pulled her down on top of
him.  "Still think so?," his breath mingling with hers.

"Oh fooey. foiled again."  She didn't sound one bit remorseful.
She could feel his heart pounding; heard it echo in her own
ears.  Her fingertip traced his jaw, her lips following the same
path.  His hands were making small circles along the small of
her back.

"Doctor...," Jadzia murmured seductively, "I have a terrible ache.
Can you help me?"

His eyes darkened.  "First, I have to diagnose the problem.  Where
is this 'terrible ache'?," he asked huskily.  His hands moved
lower.

"Right here..."
_______________________

Part 5

Songs included:
"You're Every Woman In The World To Me"  Air Supply
"Woman" John Lennon
"Unchained Melody" Righteous Brothers

Julian woke up in the morning, feeling weighted down.  He opened
his eyes and knew the reason.  Jadzia was asleep, her head resting on
his chest.  His thoughts flew back to the previous night, and a
warm feeling washed over him.  He watched her sleep, content
to just lie there for the rest of his life.  She started to stir.

"Good morning."

She pushed her tangled hair out of her eyes.  "Good morning Julian."
She gave him a tired smile.  "What time is it?"

"We have an hour before we have to be on duty."

She woke up fully.  "An hour, hmmm?  That's a bit early.  What
should we do?," her fingers running down his chest.

"Eat.  I'm starving."  Julian gave her a quick kiss before getting
out of bed and heading for the replicator.

A little less than an hour later, Jadzia left Julian's quarters,
him following a few minutes after.  He tried all day not to think
about her, but it was impossible.  He bounced around the infirmary,
the biggest grin on his face.  His staff had to wake him up from
daydreaming more than once.  He hadn't been in this good of a mood
since...he couldn't remember when.

He wanted to let Jadzia know just how happy she had made him.
He thought about it all morning.  Inspiration struck while he
was doing a blood work-up.  He would need some time to practice,
and needed to talk to Quark.  It would cost him plenty, knowing
Quark, but he was willing to do it.  Now, he had to make sure
Jadzia wouldn't be around...

He tapped his comm badge.  "Bashir to Dax."
"Dax here."

"How would you like to have lunch with the most charming man on
the station?"

"And who would that be?," he could almost see her expression.

"Oh, I'm crushed," he couldn't help but smile.  "So, what do you
say, Quark's, at 1130?"

"I'll be there. Dax out."

Julian had just enough time to talk to Quark before Jadzia got
there.  He asked one of the nurses to finish the blood work-up,
and headed for Quark's.

________
"Come on Quark.  I have the latinum."  It wasn't going well.
Jadzia would be there any minute, and he couldn't convince Quark
to let him have it.  He was beginning to think Quark was jealous.

"I don't care if you do.  It's my bar, and I can refuse anyone
service."  Quark continued to wipe the bar as he talked.  He
refused to look Bashir in the eye.

Julian thought fast.  "Let's make a deal.  I'll give you 1 and
a half times the latinum, and I'll cut down the 'health
inspections' to once a month."

That piqued Quark's interest.  "Only 1 inspection a month?"
Then he dropped his gaze.  "Not good enough."

Julian sighed.  "All right.  One inspection a month and TWO times
the latinum.  Take it or leave it,"  his expression showing he
meant it.

Quark studied him for a moment.  The latinum floating in front of
his eyes almost blocked his jealousy.  Almost.  But he couldn't
pass up the opportunity for profit.  His instincts wouldn't let
him.  "Deal."  They shook hands.  "But you take good care of her."

"I will," Julian said softly, with vehemence.

"Good.  Now, what would you like today?"  Quark's mood swing
caused Julian to turn around.  Jadzia had just walked in and
was heading straight for them.

Julian quickly put on a smile.  "Hello Jadzia.  What do you
feel like today?"

She grinned.  "You of all people should know."

Julian flushed slightly.  "Ummmm....I meant, what do you want for
lunch?"

She laughed, a smile brightening her whole face.  "I'm just teasing.
I'll have a ractagino and a club sandwich."

"And I'll have an order of Poltza," Julian chimed in.  He put his
hand on her back and led her to a quiet table.

They chatted about work until Quark brought their order.  Their
eating was interrupted by bits of conversation and laughter.  Before
they went back on duty, Julian asked her, "Would you meet me in
Quark's tonight at 1900 hours?"

She gave him a private smile.  "I'll be there."

That night, Jadzia entered Quark's, wearing a blue dress similar to
the one she had worn the night before: long and slinky.  When she
couldn't locate Julian, she found Quark.

"Quark, have you seen Julian?"

His eyes raked over her. "He asked me to escort you to holosuite 1."
He offered his arm.  "This way."

She thanked Quark, then stepped inside the holosuite.  Her eyes lit
up as she looked around.  It was a late 21st century bar, complete
with synthesizer.  The lone table was set for a candlelight dinner
for two.  No other people were visible except for Julian, standing
next to the synthesizer.  He motioned her to sit down and cleared
his throat.  "I wanted to surprise you.  I don't have the courage to
perform in front of the crowd at Quark's, but I can perform for you."

He walked to the synthesizer and sat down grandly.  He stretched his
slender fingers, played a scale to warm up, and began singing,
"You're Every Woman In the World To Me," with tender emotion.

Tears glistened in her eyes as he finished the song.  She clapped
as hard as she could, but he raised his hand.  "I'm not done yet."
He hit a few random keys, then the chords for "Woman" began.  Jadzia
slowly got up and made her way to the stage.  She sat down next to
him, a shaky smile resting on her lips.  He finished, picked up
her hand, and kissed it.  "This is the only other song I had time
to practice," he said regretfully.  "Unchained Melody" floated around
around her, his voice enveloping her.  She sighed softly.  The last
note drifted around in the silence.  "So, how do you like my singing?,"
he asked a bit nervously.

"Computer, play back songs that Julian sang," she gave him a
heart wrenching smile and took his hand.  "Care to dance?"

"I'd be delighted."

And they swayed to the music, lost in each other.
______________________

Part 6

Julian woke up especially early.  He wanted to surprise Jadzia
with breakfast...in bed.  He quickly got dressed and ordered
from his replicator.  Strawberries with cream, French toast,
ractagino-extra cream, and as a special treat, poached Ezku, a
Trill delicacy.  He hummed as he carried the tray to Jadzia's
door.

He pushed the buzzer by her door, humming tunelessly.

"Who is it?," she called through the door.

"It's your morning wake-up call, Jadzia.  I've brought you breakfast,"
he called through the door, rocking back and forth on his heels.

"Just a minute...," muffled sounds, then the door opened, revealing
Jadzia in a silk robe.

He breezed into the room, flashing her his most charming smile.
He set the tray on her table.  "I thought you would enjoy
breakfast being served to you."

"Julian, I don't think this is a good time," there was something
strange in her voice.

He looked at her in confusion.  "Why isn't it?"  He pulled out a
chair, started to sit down, and stopped.  A uniform, a red Bajoran
uniform, was lying on the chair opposite him.  The smile quickly
faded from his face.

"Oh.  I see you have company.  I better go."  He stood back up,
intending to leave, when a voice stopped him.

"Did you say breakfast?"

He whirled at the sound.  "Kira?," he said incredulously.

"I'm starving."  She walked over to the table and sat down.
"Ooh, French toast.  Doctor, aren't you going to join us?"

He started to reply but the room started to spin.  He tried to
grab for the back of the chair, but missed.  A hand caught his,
and he opened his eyes.

He squinted at the bright lights.  "What happened?"

Jadzia looked visibly relieved.  "Good.  You've finally decided to
come out of it."

"Out of it?  Out of what?," he asked, totally confused.  He looked
down at his hand clasped in hers.

"Don't worry.  You're in the infirmary.  When you didn't report for
duty yesterday, we got worried.  We found you in your quarters,
unconscious."

His confusion was growing.  "I didn't report for duty?  How did I
get back to my quarters?"

"What's the last thing you remember?"

He flushed slightly.  "Well, I had just brought you breakfast,
and..."

She started in surprise.  "You brought me *what*?  Julian," her
voice softened, "do you remember having drinks at Quark's?
Klingon T'klars?"

"Yes, but what does that have to do with anything?," the perplexed
look growing in intensity on his face.

"Julian, you apparently went back to your quarters after drinking
3 T'klars at Quark's yesterday.  That's when we found you."

He just stared at her uncomprehendingly for a moment, then
realization hit him like he was being blown out of an airlock.
"Are you telling me I've been unconscious since I left Quark's?
And that you and I never..." His voice faded when he saw her
confused expression.

"We never what?"

He squeezed his eyes shut.  _This can't be happening. I *REMEMBER*._
But one look in her eyes confirmed it.

"Forget it.  It obviously did *not* happen," he added in disgust.
"You haven't sung at Quark's, have you?"  He asked, more a statement
than a question.

"No."  All his hope vanished.  "That's not until tonight, remember?"

"WHAT?" He attempted to sit up.

"I told you 2 weeks ago, I was planning on singing at the talent show
at Quark's tonight.  Do you think you'll be able to be there?"

He suddenly felt invigorated.  "What time?"

"1900 hours."

He grinned mischievously.  "I'll be there.  I wouldn't miss this
for the world."

TO BE CONTINUED...

Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!cs.utexas.edu!not-for-mail
From: H601HUC@SEMOVM.SEMO.EDU (Jenny)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: Fantasy Meets Reality pt 2
Date: 6 May 1994 11:19:59 -0500
Organization: UTexas Mail-to-News Gateway
Lines: 819
Sender: daemon@cs.utexas.edu
Message-ID: <06MAY94.12193631.0034.MUSIC@SEMOVM>
NNTP-Posting-Host: cs.utexas.edu

This is the second installment of the "Fantasy Meets Reality"
stories.  This contains parts 7-10.  Enjoy!

All rights reserved.  Copyright @1994 by Jennifer Shipp.
Characters copyrighted by Paramount.  Permission to spread this
all over the internet granted, as long as this heading remains a
part of it.

**** Thanks to Joan the english chick for her eagle eyes and great
line! And to Tiara, for her help with part 9 ****

"Fantasy Meets Reality" by Jennifer Shipp

Part 7

"Julian, you need to rest."

He waved her aside.  "I'm fine."  It had only been a few hours
since Julian had awakened in the infirmary.  He was still a bit
shaken, still trying to sort out his fantasy from reality.  It
wasn't proving to be easy.

"Fine enough to tell me what you meant?" Jadzia sat in a chair,
watching him.

"Meant?  By what?"  He was reading the station logs from yesterday,
trying to regain his lost day.

"'You and I never...?'" She crossed her arms, waiting for an
explanation.

He looked up from the screen.  "Hmmm?  Oh."  He realized what she
was asking him about.  "I'd rather not talk about it, if you don't
mind," he said with an edge to his voice.

"Ok.  Well, if you ever do feel like talking about it, you know
where to find me."  She got up to leave.

"Ok."  He gave her a weak smile.  He was left alone in the infirmary
with his thoughts.  _That was the *most* intense dream I've ever
experienced_ he thought. _Or was it a dream?_  He decided to have
a little talk with Quark.

___________
"Hello, Quark," Julian greeted him, with just a touch of sarcasm
in his voice.

Quark jumped, causing the glasses he was washing to knock together.
"Hello Doctor.  I'm glad to see you're up and about.  Can I get you
anything?"  He was visibly nervous.

"As a matter of fact, you can answer me a few questions.  You told
me those T'klars would have an effect on the opposite sex, but they
seem to have effected me.  I was wondering if you could explain
that?"  Julian was directly in front of Quark, on the other side
of the bar.

"Well, I really have no way to know what effect T'klars will have
on people.  They affect everyone differently.  I guess they just
overloaded your system."  Quark wiped his forehead with the back
of his hand.

"Then why didn't you warn me when I ordered them?"  Julian
leaned farther over the bar, towering over Quark.  He was enjoying
watching the little Ferengi squirm.

"Ah, well, you know the old saying 'let the buyer beware'.  It's not
my fault you didn't ask."  Quark was trying his best to put on a
brave front, but he could tell Bashir was angry.

"I can't *ask* about something I don't *know* about."  He leaned
across the bar, causing Quark to back up.  "I think an apology
is in order."

Quark had seen the doctor blow up before, and it wasn't something he
wished to see again.  "I agree."  Quark drew himself up to his full
height.  "Doctor, I apologize for not informing you of the effects
of T'klars.  Satisfied?"

"Yes."  Julian took a step back.  "And Quark."

"What now?  You want me to give blood?"

"No," he smiled.  "I just wanted to thank you."

He eyed him suspiciously.  "Thank me?  For what?"

"Didn't you know?"  Julian feigned innocence. "T'klars apparently
induce dreaming.  And I must tell you, it seemed quite real."
He smiled and a twinkle of something sparkled in his eye.  "It
was quite embarrassing, actually, waking up and talking to Dax.
She didn't know what I was talking about, and she didn't know what
I was talking about.

"Anyway," he finished offhandedly, "I just wanted to express my
thanks.  My dream was most...entertaining."  One side of his mouth
curved into a smile.  He turned to leave, but snapped his fingers
and turned back.

"Oh, one more thing.  If you ever even think about telling anyone
about our conversation, I'll make sure Odo has a little talk with you."

Quark was left in a state of confusion.  He tried to figure out
everything Bashir had told him.  "He was embarrassed when he woke up
from the dream, embarrassed because Dax didn't know...."

Julian's smile widened when he heard an anguished "NO" echo
throughout Quark's.

Julian went back to his quarters to rest before the talent contest.
He had only been up for a few hours, but he was tired.  But when he
tried to sleep, he just tossed and turned.  He stared at the ceiling,
his hands behind his head.  His thoughts returned to his dream, which
was quickly fading.  He sat up.  Sleeping was useless; he needed
something to do...he got out of bed and went to his closet.  He
rooted around until he found his portable keyboard.  He held it in
his hands, a thoughtful expression on his face.  Then inspiration
struck.  He closed his eyes, remembering back, and started playing.
A slow smile formed on his lips.  He could play it in the talent
contest.  But he would have to see Quark first.  He decided to wait
a few hours until he cooled off.  Until then, he had a lot of
practicing to do.

Later that afternoon he went to see Quark, who was surprised to
see him, to say the least.  The Ferengi was more than a little
apprehensive about seeing the doctor again.  "Hello Doctor, back for
another round?"  Sarcasm dripped from his voice, but he did take a
step back from the bar.

Julian gave him his most charming, agreeable smile.  "Not at all,
Quark.  In fact, I'd like to apologize for my behavior this morning.
I wasn't feeling myself, and I may have been a bit harsh."  He sat
down at the bar.  "So what do you say, Quark?  Will you forgive
one of your best customers?"

Quark contemplated his expression and tone, and decided he was
sincere.  "Well, it wouldn't do to lose one of my best customers,
now would it?"  He immediately relaxed.  "Now, as one of my best
customers, what can I get you?"

Julian silently crossed his fingers. "You could give me a spot in the
talent contest."

Quark looked stupefied.  "You're kidding.  What are you going to do,
perform an autopsy?"  He started laughing.

Julian gave him a wry grin.  "Yes Quark, on your dead body."  He
became serious.  "I happen to play the keyboard and sing.  Does the
band have a synthesizer or keyboard of some kind?"

Quark quit laughing long enough to see he was serious.  "Yes,
they do."  He eyed him sceptically.  "You don't really know how to
play, do you?"

Julian let out a frustrated sigh.  "Yes, I do.  And I'll play in the
contest, IF you'll give me a spot.  Will you?"  His eyes became
pleading.

Quark shrugged.  "Why not? The crowd should get a good laugh, if
nothing else."

"Thanks for the vote of confidence," he replied dryly.  "I think
you'll be surprised."

"Whatever.  You can go on after the Delgottan flutist, which should
be about 2030 hours."

"Thanks Quark.  I really appreciate this."  Julian gave him a
sincere smile and left.

__________
Julian went back on duty, trying to get his mind off the contest.
When his shift ended, he went back to his quarters to get ready.  He
took a shower, then stood in front of his closet.  A purplish
jacket and grey pants peeked out at him, and he eagerly reached for
them.  He found an off-white shirt that didn't look half bad with it,
and stepped in front of the mirror.

He looked all right, but he didn't feel all right.  He couldn't believe
it, but he had a touch of butterflies.  _Just relax_ he told himself.
He took a few deep breaths, and it calmed him somewhat.  His face
stared back at him nervously, but his eyes reflected determination.
He hadn't been able to do this in his dream, but he was prepared
to go through with it now.  He would sing his heart out, to Jadzia.
He strode out the door on his way to Quark's.
_______________________________

Part 8

*******DISCLAIMER**********
This part in no way reflects/is affiliated with the "Talent Show Cycle"
on alt.st.creative

Songs included:
"Vision of Love" Mariah Carey
"If Tomorrow Never Comes" Garth Brooks
"The Heart Won't Lie" Reba McEntire and Vince Gill

Julian entered Quark's, surprised by how much it looked like his
dream.  The raised dais at the other end of the room, the performer
in a spotlight on stage, everything.  Except this time Jadzia wasn't
the one in the spotlight.  She was at a table with Sisko and Kira.
Sisko spotted him and waved him over.  He nodded hellos as he made
his way to the table.  Kira watched him approach, a smile on her face.
"Hello, Doctor.  I heard you had quite a nap." Jadzia nudged her
with her elbow, trying to hide a smile.

"Would you care for a drink, Doctor?" Sisko was not very successful
in keeping a straight face.

"Benjamin," Jadzia stage-whispered across to him.

Julian smiled good naturedly.  "I'm glad you're all enjoying this.
Do you have anything to add, Jadzia?," he said as he took a seat.

Jadzia was giggling by now.  "I'm sorry Julian.  It was just
too funny to keep to myself.  Besides, the entire station knew
something had happened to you.  You weren't there to scout out the
new female arrivals to the station."

Julian started to protest. "I do *NOT* 'scout out new female
arrivals'..Never mind."  He rolled his eyes.  "How long am I going
to have to put up with these jokes, if that's what you call 'jokes'."

"Ooh, I'm hurt."  Jadzia put her hand over her heart.

"So am I," Kira added.  "Seriously, you'll be back to your usual
charming self any time now, right?," biting her lower lip to keep
from laughing.

Julian buried his face in his hands and groaned.  Sisko squeezed
his shoulder.  "Just think, Doctor, we've only had 1 day.  Give us
some time to come up with some *real* zingers."

"OOH," he groaned louder.  Kira, Jadzia, and Sisko were really
laughing now.

The lights dimmed and Quark stepped up onto the dais.  Julian sent
a silent 'thank you' to Quark and whatever gods might be listening.

"Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Quark's 3rd Annual Talent Contest."
This was met by wild applause.  "To begin, I would like to introduce,
Lieutenant Jadzia Dax.  The lady of science."

Whistles and howls greeted this introduction.  Jadzia stepped onto
the dais, and Julian got his first good look at her outfit.  She
was wearing a dark blue, shimmering dress, with a slit up to her
thigh.  Her hair was piled on top of her head, ringlets teasing the
spots on her bare shoulders.  She whispered to the band, who
nodded.  Julian recognized the opening strains of the music.  It
was "Vision of Love," the same song she had sung in his dream.
He watch her, mesmerized.  His fantasy wasn't turning out to be a
fantasy at all!  It was becoming real right before his eyes.

Her voice was exactly like in his dream.  Low, throaty, sultry.
She was almost melting the microphone.  She got a round of
applause, Julian, Sisko and Kira leading the standing ovation.
Jadzia stepped down off the dais to receive her friends adulations.

"That was wonderful,"  Kira and Sisko said at the same time.  Julian
just stood, his grin becoming wider as Jadzia started hugging everyone.
She slid into a chair between Benjamin and Julian.  Her eyes were
sparkling.  "Thanks, everyone.  That was so much fun.  I haven't
done that in years."

Sisko turned to Julian.  "You haven't said much Doctor.  What's
your diagnosis?"

Julian glanced at Jadzia, his eyes matching her sparkle.  "That was
incredible.  I didn't know you could sing."

"Thanks, I think," she laughed.  "I have a lot more talents you
don't know about," she added.

_Yet,_ he finished silently.  "I'll bet," he said out loud.

The next act came on, but the officers were too busy talking about
Jadzia's performance to notice.  Julian tried to stay in the
conversation, but was distracted by something near the entrance to
Quark's.

Jadzia caught him and started to tease him.  "Are you looking for
someone or making an escape plan?"  She turned in the direction he
was looking, but couldn't tell what he was looking at.

"I just spotted someone I haven't seen in a long time.  I want to
say hello.  Excuse me."  He got up and walked away, a distracted
look in his eye.

Jadzia turned back to the table.  "Must be someone special," a bit
of hurt and something else in her voice.  She glanced back at where
she lost sight of Julian, but couldn't see him.

Jadzia, Benjamin, and Kira continued watching the rest of the acts;
the fireater, a juggler, but the one that held their attention
was a Bajoran who played the Sylopos.  It was a rare treat to
see a humanoid playing it, since it usually required 4 arms to
operate.

They were still talking about it when Quark announced the next
performer.  Looks of astonishment went around the small table of
Starfleet officers.  Dr. Bashir stood in the spotlight, a nervous
smile on his face.  He walked over to the keyboard and sat down.
He hit a few random keys, then began to sing.  His voice started off
a bit shaky, but gained strength as he gained confidence.  He
stole a glance at his table, but couldn't see past the spotlight.
Julian's voice was touching everyone, as was the song he sang.  It
was a song about seizing the moment, about not letting opportunities
pass you by.  Sisko had unshed tears in his eyes.  Jadzia's lower
lip trembled, and Kira swallowed hard, looking down at her clenched
hands.

Julian's voice was thick with emotion as he sang the last lines:

"So tell that someone that you love
Just what you're thinking of
If tomorrow never comes."

The keyboard faded along with his voice and silence continued for
several seconds.  Then a burst of applause caused him to jump.
He smiled broadly and bowed.  Quark even looked impressed as he
came on stage to announce the next act.

Julian made his way back to his table, where his friends were standing.
Sisko shook his hand, Kira patted him on the back, and then he turned
to Jadzia.  She grabbed him in a tight hug and whispered "that was
wonderful," in his ear.

"Where did you learn to sing and play that thing?," Sisko wanted
to know.

They all sat down, and Julian began his story.  "My mother used to
sing around the house, and when I was little, I used to sing with her.
I leaned to play the keyboard to impress a cadet at the Academy,"
he said a bit sheepishly.  But no one was snickering.  Respect and
surprise reflected back at him from their eyes.  Jadzia asked him
about his favorite singer, and they discussed musicians until Quark
was ready to announce the winner.

Quark stepped into the spotlight on stage, waving for everyone to
quiet down.  "This is the first time this has ever happened.  The
competition was so close, we've declared a tie.  So, for the
singing Starfleet officers, Lieutenant Dax and Dr. Bashir,
congratulations!  Come up here and get your trophies!"

That got a standing ovation from Quark's patrons and astonished
cries from the officers' table.  Benjamin hugged Jadzia while
Kira hugged Julian.  Julian and Jadzia turned to each other.
Julian offered his hand to help her up.  "Shall we?"  They
walked to the stage together.

"Congratulations," Quark said as he shook their hands.  They
bowed together.  The crowd started chanting "duet, duet,"
and from the looks of it, Sisko and Kira started it.  Jadzia
laughed and looked questionly at Julian.  "Do you want to do it?'

"I'm willing if you are.  But what should we sing?"

Jadzia thought for a moment, then nodded.  "I know.  Come here."
She took his hand and pulled him to talk with the band.  After
a few moments, the lights dimmed.  The spotlight shone on Jadzia.
"The Heart Won't Lie" began, Jadzia's voice bring the regret and
sorrow to life.  Julian stepped into the spotlight on cue, his
voice blending and complementing hers.  As Julian stepped next
to Jadzia, he held out his hand to her, and she grasped it firmly.
He looked into her eyes, and saw unshed tears glistening.  They
sang to each other, Quark's place evaporating around them.  As
Jadzia sang the final note, they stood smiling, staring into each
other's eyes, lost in their own private world.  Thunderous
applause finally caused them to slowly turn and bow.  Jadzia gave
Julian a hug and stepped down, him following her.  The applause
didn't die down for a full 3 minutes.

"I never knew you had it in you, Doctor.  I'm very impressed."
Kira had a touch of admiration in her voice.  "Dax, I knew you
had it in you."

"That was incredible.  I never thought I missed singing, until
tonight."  Julian couldn't stop smiling.  "We made a pretty good
duet up there."

"That was exhilarating.  We did do pretty good, didn't we?"  She
eyed him.  "Are you suggesting we partner up?"

"Well, for singing, definitely.  With practice we could be sensational.
We could tour the galaxy, singing for our keep..."

"Julian?," Jadzia interrupted him.

He stopped his daydreaming and refocused on her.  "Yes?"

"You're getting carried away.  How about we just dance?"

He smiled.  "I guess I could settle for that."
_____________________________
Part 9

Songs included:

"Straight From The Heart" Brian Adams
"Boot Scootin' Boogie" Brooks and Dunn
"Hopelessly" Rick Astley
"Love Takes Time" Mariah Carey
"Faithfully" Journey
__________
The band was playing "Straight From the Heart" as Julian led Jadzia
to the dance floor.  He was just beginning to enjoy the feeling of
her in his arms when the song changed.  "Boot Scootin' Boogie," began,
and Jadzia dragged Benjamin out on the floor.  She started a line
dance, and Julian and Benjamin laughingly tried to keep up with her.

Kira was alone at the table, shaking her head at her friends and
laughing, but with a slight look of wistfulness in her eyes.
"Is this seat taken?," a low voice asked.  She turned around, and
a smile broke over her face.  "Vedek Bareil, When did you..?, Why
are you...?, Oh, sit down."  She waved at a chair.

"How can I refuse such a gracious offer?"  His hazel eyes crinkled
as he smiled and took the seat next to her.  She couldn't help but
notice how nice he looked in a loose-fitting maroon shirt and tight-
fitting grey slacks.

"I guess you didn't know.  I haven't missed Quark's Annual Talent
Contest yet.  It's interesting to see the variety of talent out there.
Besides," he leaned closer, "it gets me out of the monastery."

Kira laughed with surprise.  "I can't believe it.  First, Bashir
sings, and now you're telling me that you like talent contests?"
She shook her head.  "You did get to hear Dax and Bashir sing, didn't
you?"

"Yes.  Individually, they were great, but together, they were...magic."
He looked into Kira's eyes as he spoke this last word.  They held
each other's gazes for a moment, then Bareil looked down at his hands.
"I was here for the whole show.  I..wasn't sure...I thought I would
be intruding...you all seemed to be enjoying yourselves."

Kira shook her head.  "Oh, no.  You're welcome at our table anytime.
and mine."  Her hand reached over and settled on his.  The song
changed and Bareil looked up.  "Would you honor me by allowing me
this dance?"

"I...can't. I don't know how,"  she barely whispered.  "I never
saw the purpose of learning, or had the opportunity."

"It's easy.  And, it's about time you learned."  He helped her up,
admiring her outfit. "Did I mention that I love that color on you?"
The dark green pants suit hugged her body. "It brings out
the color of your eyes."

"Uh, no.  You didn't.  Thank you," she stammered.  "You look very
nice yourself,"  she added under her breath, not sure if he heard
her or not.

"Thank you," he replied, much to her chagrin, and coaxed her to
the dance floor.

She was embarrassed enough, having Bareil trying to teach her to
dance, but the song playing...did the band have to play "Hopelessly?"
She hoped her embarrassment and awkwardness didn't show.

"Now, you just put your arms around me, like this, and I put my
arms around you, like this, and we sway to the music.  Quite
simple, actually."  He smiled at her.

"Oh yeah.  Real simple."  Kira hoped he didn't notice the flaming
of her cheeks.  She could just tell they were burning red.  Her
movements were stiff and awkward, and she wouldn't look at Bareil.

"Julian."  Jadzia looked up from his shoulder and nodded over at
Kira and Bareil.  "Look over there."

He looked and smiled.  "I'm glad he approached her.  I could see
him at a back table, watching her."

Jadzia's eyes widened in surprise and she began chastising him.
"You saw him earlier?  Why didn't you ask him to join us?  Why did
he...Wait."  Her tone became accusary.  "Where did you go earlier?,"
she demanded.

"Oh, I just went to talk to a friend," he answered vaguely, giving
her a knowing smile.

"Dr. Bashir thought you could use some company.  He's a good man.
And a good friend." Bareil explained to Kira about how he had found
her table.

"I guess he is."  She felt comfortable enough now to lean her head
on his shoulder, a smile softening her face, her eyes closed.

"You saw him watching her and asked him what was he waiting for?
Julian, you're a hopeless romantic!"  She gave him a squeeze.
"And I'm glad you are."  She rested her head on his shoulder, smiling
contentedly.

The song changed again, from "Love Takes Time," to "Faithfully,"
Julian and Jadzia, Bareil and Kira still on the dance floor.

"I'm beginning to see the appeal in dancing."  Kira whispered,
relaxing totally in Bareil's arms.

"So am I," Bareil responded, holding her closer.

The set ended, and the band took a 5 minute break.  Julian and Jadzia
passed Bareil and Kira walking towards the bar, but they didn't
notice them.  They were lost in each other, lost in their own little
world.

They made it back to the table, only to see Benjamin ready to leave.
"I should go check on Jake.  I don't want him wandering around,
and since I haven't seen Nog, I assume their together.  I'll see
you both tomorrow.  Oh, by the way, I want a copy of your duet for
Chief O'Brien.  I'm sure he'll want to hear it."  He smiled as
he left.

They said their good-byes, then turned to each other, rolling their
eyes at the same time.  They sat in comfortable silence for awhile,
Julian playing with the cuff of his sleeve.

"I didn't know you liked to dance.  If you want, I could go all
night."  A sly smile told her he had other things in mind.

She smiled wryly.  "No thanks.  My feet are killing me.  I haven't
worn heels in decades," she added ruefully, slipping off her shoes
and flexing her feet.

"Here, give me your foot."

"Why?" she asked suspiciously.

"To massage those tired toes of yours.  After standing for hours on
end at Starfleet Medical, you learn a few things."  She placed her
foot on his lap, her dress sliding off her leg.  He flushed slightly.

"Ohh, that feels so good."  She flexed her foot and closed her eyes.
"Let me personally thank Starfleet Medical for torturing their
students."

"Thanks a lot," he replied dryly.  "Give me your other foot."

"Mmmm, you have a gift, doctor.  You missed your true calling."

"If you like what I'm doing to your feet, you should see what I could
do to the rest of you."  His eyes held a hint of a challenge.

Jadzia opened her eyes and regarded him.  "Really?" Her eyes met his
challenge.  "We'll just see about that."  She held out her hand.
"Let's go."

"What?" he croaked.

The corner of her mouth showed the barest hint of a smile.  "I want
to see if you're all talk."

He gave her a quirky half smile. "Let me assure you, I'm definitely
not all talk."

"All right then, let's go."  She slid her feet off his lap.

"Where?" His eyes were fairly dancing.

She picked up her shoes with one hand, his hand with the other,
guided him out of his chair, and said the two words he had
been waiting his whole life to hear.  "Your quarters."

They walked out of Quark's, Julian wearing the widest grin anyone
had ever seen on his face.
____________________________

Part 10 - the end!

*****Warning  - this part contains a minor spoiler for "Invasive
Procedures".  Didn't like the way it ended?  Then read on...
It could also be rated PG-13.  I just don't want any parents mad
at me. :)
**********

Songs included:
"Songbird" Kenny G
"The Dance" Garth Brooks
"Everything I Do (I Do It For You)" Brian Adams
"Unchained Melody" Righteous Brothers
"Hold On To The Nights" Richard Marx
"Angel Eyes" The Jeff Healey Band
"Nothing Like A Woman" Vince Gill
"Now and Forever" Richard Marx

"I wonder how you'd look on your back...under me," Julian said
with a smirk.  He looked down at Jadzia, lying on his bed, her
head resting in her arms.  He was massaging the muscles of her
neck, his fingers working their magic on her soft skin.  As he
touched her, his thoughts, like his pulse, raced a light year
a minute.

She turned her head to look at him, a wicked gleam in her eye.
"Oh really?"

She grabbed his arm, and in one fluid motion, flipped him flat on
his back on the floor.  She stood over him, her bare foot resting
lightly on his chest.  "I *know* how you'd look on your back under
me."

"Ohh-owwww!," he groaned.

"Oh, get up you big baby."  She took her foot off him, reached down
to clasp his hand, and tried to help him up.

"*DON'T* help me.  I'm in *PAIN* dammit!" He winced as he tried to
sit up.

She was immediately contrite.  "I am SO sorry Julian.  I didn't
mean to..."  She gently helped him to his feet.

He rubbed his back, but it didn't help.  "I can't believe
you did that.  I was only joking," he said incredulously.  He
gingerly sat down on the edge of his bed.  He searched his nightstand,
looking for a muscle relaxer, but couldn't find one. "Not here.
Now I'll have to go to the infirmary."

Jadzia regarded him, mentally cursing herself for not using more
restraint.  "Julian, I'm truly sorry.  But, you don't have to go
to the infirmary.  A hot shower will work just as well.  You should
try it.  Besides, how will you explain your injury to the nurses?"
She tried to hide her smile and laughter bubbling just below the
surface in a cough.

Julian grudgingly agreed, a murderous look in his eye.  She helped
him to the bathroom.  A minute later, she heard the shower go on.
She wandered barefoot around his quarters, looking at the various
things he had lying around.  She called in to him, "Julian, can I
listen to some music?"  She didn't hear a response, so went ahead
and looked through his selection.  A chip caught her eye, and she
popped it in.  "Songbird" floated around her.  She requested half-
lights and sank into a chair, losing herself in the music.

The shower quit and Julian called in, "Jadzia, can you hand me my
robe?  It's in the closet."

"Sure," she called back, picking out the black silk garment and
handing it to him through the partially opened door.  "Do you need
any help in there?," she asked playfully.

"Thanks.  I think you've helped enough."  He walked into the
room, rubbing a towel through his damp hair.  He paused, his
head tilted to one side.  "Nice choice of music."

"Thanks."  She couldn't help but notice how his hair curled a bit
when it was wet, and how his robe made his eyes stand out that
much more. "Does your back feel better?"

He tossed the towel back into the bathroom.  "Much, but it's still
a bit stiff."

"Lie down." She indicated his bed.

"Excuse me?"  He wasn't quite sure he heard her correctly.

"I won't hurt you, I promise.  Now just lie down and relax."

He shrugged his arms out of the robe and lay down.  She slowly
worked the muscles of his neck, amazed by the texture of his skin.
It felt smooth, like velvet.  She searched his face, cradled
in his arms.  He looked like a little boy, lying there with
his eyes closed, a smile teasing the corners of his mouth.
Thoughts of his boyish charm mingled with his dedication and
skill as a doctor, and a smile formed on her lips.  Unconsciously,
her hands pushed his robe to the middle of his back.

A soft sigh escaped from his lips.  "Mmm, you have magic fingers,
Jadzia."  Her fingers were making the nerve endings on his back
tingle.  Each touch sent new waves of pleasure down his spine.
A slight flush crept over his body, tinting his golden skin.

"Do I?"  She could feel heat emanating from his skin wherever her
fingers touched him.  She felt an answering heat beginning deep
within her.  Her hands bunched his robe around the top of his
hips, revealing his whole back to her gaze.  Her eyes drank up the
sight of his lean body, the light turning his tawny skin a deep
caramel.  Her hands switched from massaging to sensual exploration,
lightly running up his sides.  Her hands caressed his shoulders,
smoothing the skin down his back.

He moaned low in his throat.  His eyes partially opened as he
lifted his head, watching her with catlike grace.

Her hands teased their way slowly up to his shoulders, lightly
brushing his arms.  His hand caught hers and touched it lightly
to his lips.  Blue eyes searched brown, silently communicating
mutual need.  "Everything I Do, I Do It For You" began softly
playing in the background.

She leaned down to him, her lips barely brushing his.  She cupped
his face delicately in her hands, losing herself in his toffee-
colored eyes.  His left arm curved around her waist as she fell
into his embrace.  Her hands threaded through his hair, making
their way slowly down his neck.  They found his shoulders, tracing
slow patterns down his back.

His hands reached for her hair, releasing it from its constraint,
letting it flow freely about her face.  He buried his face in its
glory, nuzzling her neck.  He splayed kisses across her face,
following the trail of spots down the delicate, graceful curve
of her neck.  His eager hands found the fastening at the back of
her dress, and relieved her of that restraint as well.  His hands
helped it on its snakelike path down her back, over her hips,
and onto the floor.  He let out a shuddered breath as his hands
explored every soft curve of her body.

She shivered at his touch.  His hands were caressing her neck and
back, while hers ran down his chest, untying the knot of his robe
and impatiently tugging it free of him.  She trailed kisses over
his slender neck, his shoulders, his chest, delighting in the
taste of him.

"Oh, Julian," she whispered breathlessly.

Julian pulled her across him and rolled her onto her back.  He
smiled as he pushed her hair away from her face.  He gazed
wonderingly at her, amazed that she was there, in his arms at last.
His hand travelled lazily down her side, across her midriff.  It
It lightly brushed the place where her symbiont had been removed
by him.  He glanced down at where his hand lay, remembering.

She watched his expression change, and tears formed in her eyes.
"Julian, it wasn't your fault.  I was the one who insisted...Besides,
you were the one who got it back for me.  I never did thank you," she
said, her lower lip trembling.  She tenderly caressed his cheek
and kissed him softly.  "Thank you," she whispered.

He gently cupped her chin, as if she was a piece of china that
might break at the slightest touch.  "Jadzia, if I had lost you,
I don't know how I..." he broke off, tears glistening in his eyes.

"Shh.  You didn't lose me.  I'm right here." Tears glistened in her
own eyes.  "I felt the same way just yesterday.  Finding you in your
quarters, just lying there, nothing physically wrong with you, yet
you wouldn't wake up..." She grasped his head firmly in her hands.
"Don't you ever scare me like that again," she whispered tenderly,
her blue eyes shining.

"Oh, Jadzia," he murmured, his arms encircled her, both of them holding
on as if the other might disappear.  He buried his face in her neck.
He slowly became aware of her featherlike kisses on his shoulder.

He pulled back to search her eyes.  The look they held assured him
that everything was going to be all right, and that he wouldn't get
much sleep that night.  He smiled, a slow, sly smile, and kissed
the tip of her nose.

She gazed into his deep brown eyes.  _I could get lost in there_
she thought, _and I don't think I'd mind_.  She matched his smile
and pulled him towards her, her mouth eagerly seeking his.  Her
leg hooked over his, pulling him even closer.

Julian's hands began a slow, sensuous trail down her sides.  They
teased the skin along her waist, her hips, her thighs, outlining
every curve.  He nibbled at her ear, burning kisses down her
neck, across her shoulders, down the valley between her breasts.
Her hands held his head there, her head thrown back in exquisite
delight.

She felt a delicious tingle all the way down to her toes.  Her
skin felt like fire wherever he touched it.  Her heart echoed in her
ears, her excitement building as Julian continued his assault on
her senses.  _He may be young,_ she thought, _but he definitely
knows what he's doing._

A moan of need from Julian matched Jadzia's groan of pleasure.  She
clasped his head in a fierce embrace and drew his mouth hungrily
to hers.  With a low moan of delight, she drew her lips from
his and sought the hollow at the base of his throat where his
pulse raced.

His breathing was becoming labored.  She was driving him mad with
her touch.  Her hands seemed to be everywhere at once, caressing,
fondling, teasing.  His head started to swim.  He started to forget
where he was, who he was.  His heart was hammering in his chest,
threatening to break free.

The throbbing deep within her threatened to tear her apart.  "Now,
Julian, take me now," she implored, her eyes half closed, her
breathing ragged.

He answered with a low groan, slipping inside her, causing her
breath to catch in her throat.  A thin film of sweat broke over
his back.  A tremor wracked his body, threatening his control. Her
hands slipped down his back, urging him on.  Their passion built,
higher and higher, until it washed over them, giving them the
release they both craved.

They lay intertwined, not knowing where one ended and the other
began.  They caught their breaths, their hearts returning to a more
normal pace.  Julian held Jadzia close, smiling contentedly.  His
eyes held a look of amazement, which he could see reflected in
Jadzia's.  _God's, she's incredible_ he thought.  He ran his hand
lightly down her arm.

She snuggled closer to him, a satisfied smile gracing her lips.

He glanced down at her in his arms, his eyes twinkling.  "You
know, you could drive a man to drink," he said with an impish
grin.

She laughed softly, lightly slapping his chest.  "You can't mean
that."

He gently turned her face to him.  "You're all the intoxication
I'll ever need," he said, his eyes burning with an intensity she
had never seen before.

She caressed his jaw, her eyes sparkling.  "In that case, come
here, my darling Doctor," pulling him down to kiss her.

He happily obliged.  _I hope Sisko doesn't mind two tired officers
in the morning_ he thought.  As Jadzia began rubbing her leg
against his, and the way she was caressing him..._make that
two *VERY* tired officers._

THE END

