Article 706 of alt.startrek.creative:
Xref: ariel.unm.edu rec.arts.startrek:75917 alt.startrek.creative:706
Newsgroups: rec.arts.startrek,alt.startrek.creative
Path: ariel.unm.edu!unmvax!maverick.ksu.ksu.edu!ux1.cso.uiuc.edu!bradley.bradley.edu!buhub!moonman
From: moonman@buhub.bradley.edu (Craig Levin)
Subject: "Found Out"-a long story
Message-ID: <1991May4.011312.16762@bradley.bradley.edu>
Summary: Based partially off of thoughts I had after "First Contact". 
Keywords: none
Sender: news@bradley.bradley.edu
Nntp-Posting-Host: buhub.bradley.edu
Organization: Science underground-a political quantum leap!
Distribution: na
Date: Sat, 4 May 91 01:13:12 GMT
Lines: 495

After watching "First Contact" back in the misty wastes of the past, I
decided to write about a similar situation, where the Enterprise was
found by others, these others being somewhat more primitive than the
UFP. What followed-is what you're about to read. If it's food for
thought, cool, if not, shoot, I tried.

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

		        	FOUND OUT

For decades, it has been seen as Starfleet's mission to find new worlds
and new civilizations. However, on some rare occaisions, it is
Starfleet's luck to be seen first...

"Commander Riker, I believe that there is another spacecraft among the
moons of this planet.", said Data. Riker, who was returning from Ten
Forward, was as startled as the rest of the crewmen on the bridge when
Data made his statement.

Riker stalked over to the ops console. "Show me.", replied Riker.

"I have been scanning the radio bands in an attempt to better gauge
the weather of this Jovian world that we are orbiting.", explained
Data, as a particlored globe surrounded by 7 smaller balls appeared on
the main viewscreen. "While I was scanning, I noticed a repeating
pattern-not unlike the data transmission protocols that we use-emanating
from the third moon of the planet.", continued Data.

"And? Have we charted this moon yet?", asked Riker tensely.

"As a matter of fact, yes, sir. We just passed it 40 minutes ago. I am
putting a telescopic view centered on the radio source on the
viewscreen now.", answered Data. A fairly typical icy craterscape
flashed onto the screen, but with one exception: a spidery craft of
shiny metal in the middle. Two huge banks of solar cells projected
from the body of this craft, and poles that appeared to be either
antennae or instrument booms protruded as well. Also, ominously, two
cylinders swiveled from their previous position seemingly above the
Enterprise to point directly at them. 

"Gun barrels! Should we raise shields, commander?", rasped Worf.

"That seems to be the best option. Awaken the captain as well.",
replied Riker. Worf bent over the security console for a moment, then
nodded.

"I do not think that those are gun barrels, lieutenant. I have just
scanned the craft, and it appears to be similar to the Mariner probes
of Earth from many centuries ago. Those are cameras.", stated Data.

"Look, it's approaching us!", called the helmsman. It was, indeed
creeping towards the Enterprise, a cloud of vapor behind it. "Sir, I
am receiving transmissions from the spacecraft and from a planet
closer to the sun of this world.", Data interjected. Just then, a
disheveled Jean-Luc Picard arrived on the bridge. "What's going on
here, Number One, that is so important that I have to wake up?", asked
Picard garrulously.

Riker replied, "It appears that we have found a companion in this
system.", as he pointed to the spinning probe.

"I see.", said Picard, " and have you discovered the place of origin
of this spacecraft, as well as its intentions?"

"Apparently, sir, it's some sort of probe from a planet closer to this
system's star. Should we approach this planet? It appears that the
civilization there has only just started to travel in space...",
replied Riker.

"Nevertheless, Number One, it seems that WE are the discovered now. It
would seem...unguestlike...not to show up to visit the hosts, wouldn't
it?", grinned Picard.

"Captain, I'm not sure that this is the best course. What if
our..."hosts" are unwilling to deal with us?", asked Riker.

"I wouldn't really consider that, Number One. Look at what they're
having their probe do.", answered Picard. The spacecraft was spinning
in order to place it's banks of solar cells in a direct line from
itself to its homeworld. "After all, they're only giving us a
signpost!", mused Picard.

"Helm, proceed at half impulse to the position determined by Data's
signal receptions and the probe's direction.", ordered Riker.

The helmsman, a serious-minded Andorian, bent over the console, and
looked at Picard. "Course and speed laid in, sir.", he said.

"Engage. Number One, Mr. Worf, and Mr. Data, to my conference room;
oh, helm, notify the others of my staff to go to the conference room
as well.", Picard said.

Inside the conference room, the finest of the Enterprise's crew sat,
deep in thought as Data patiently explained the ocurrences of the past
few moments. "Data, can we get detailed scans of this planet that is
the probe's origin? I'd like to know what sort of life form that we
might have to deal with.", asked Dr. Crusher.

"It will take a while to get close enough to use the instruments at
their full power, but it is possible that I can display some of the
grosser characteristics of the world.", answered Data. He motioned to
Geordi, who stepped over to the android, and after a momentary
whispered conference, a furious flurry of hunt-and-peck typing-the
classic hacker style, mused Riker-ensued. After 45 seconds, the two
looked at each other, and a picture of a varicolored, but mostly
water-blue and chlorophyll world appeared on the conference room
screen. "Had to do a little ad hoc image enhancement there for the
green...", murmured Geordi under his grin.

"So, Data, Doctor, as our two ranking science officers, what can you
tell the rest of us about this world and the things upon it? It does
appear to be a fairly clean-looking world given its level of
technology.", said Picard after a moment.

Dr. Crusher was the first to respond. "We have at least a day or two
before we enter orbit about the planet. By that time, I'm sure the
people in linguistics can decipher their language and put it into the
Universal Translator. As for us in life sciences, we'll do what we
can. I'd like to start right now, actually.", she said. Data nodded in
agreement, and Picard looked around for a moment and said, "Very well.
Please give me a full report as soon as you can. In the meantime, I
will be on the bridge personally for much of the time." 

After a day, Picard, impatient as ever when confronted with the
unknown, called a second conference. This time, the conferees had
results rather than requests. The first to speak was Data. "During the
past day I, with the assistance of the engineering department, have
been able to study the physiochemical details of this planet. It is
about 1.1 Earth masses, but still only one Earth radius, leading it to
have a higher surface acceleration. The atmosphere is thicker and more
humid, and the continents lower than those seen on Earth. Swamps cover
much of the "Northern" continents, both approximately the size of
Earth's South America. Due to the heavier humidity and the planet's
distance from its sun, approximately eight tenths of an astronomical
unit, we have been able to make several accurate guesses as to the
average surface temperature of this world, all in the neighborhood of
20 degrees [measurements are in metric when possible]. Spectroscopic
scans reveal that this world's atmosphere is quite similar to Earth's,
save for some slight excess methane, water vapor, and dioxide of
sulfur.", he said.

"We in the life and social sciences have been fairly busy as well,", 
Dr. Crusher announced, "and in my opinion, the "people" who we're
about to visit are a most fascinating group. As we have approached the
planet, we have been able to pick up their radio and television
broadcasts, and the universal translator worked on the problem of
translation for about 6 hours. We've found that one of the stronger
channels was an educational channel, providing the basics of what we
might see as a high school education to those who watch it. This was a
windfall, as it has been providing us with a lot of baseline
information that we can use. The intelligent inhabitants of this world
call it Darkonta, and themselves the Worglups. Worglups are similar to
the amphibians of Earth in anatomy, and evolved about a million years
ago. Captain, I recall that you remarked as to the clean appearance of
this world last we met."

"I said something of that sort, yes.", replied Picard.

"Well, it seems that the Worglups have very sensitive skins, and gave
up the use of fossil fuels almost 3 centuries ago, shifting over at
first to hydroelectric, then augmenting it with tidal energy, and
finally have become a planet of hydrogen burners. While this makes the
planet more humid than it was before, it has been worth it for the
Worglups. As to the other life forms on Darkonta's surface, the most
advanced non-sentient life forms seem to be other amphibianoids, some
as large as an ox and used as beasts of burden in ancient times. There
are several orders of fishlike creatures swimming in Darkonta's huge
seas, some ranging up to the size of an Earth pilot whale. Also, there
are seagoing amphibianoids that the ancient Worglups worshipped,
called gigas, that might even be as large as the largest of the
Earth's dinosaurs. Several insectoid orders exist as well, and it is
these that the Worglups mainly fed upon until they learned agriculture
millenia ago.", Dr. Crusher continued, "And their society must have
changed radically. In fact, the anthropologists find these creatures
most interesting in that regard. You may recall that in Earth's 19th
and 20th centuries, historians and anthropologists had found a
sequence of how civilization proceeds-from family groupings, to clans
or tribes, then on to nations and a world government. Well, these
Worglups have bypassed the painful period of nationalism, and became a
world government while still tribal. Each tribe, after a 10 year
period of warfare 2700 years ago, has a specific job dictated to it by
the Gundans, the head, and priestly, tribe. As their technology
developed, tribes that were once at the base level of farming were
"redesignated" by the Gundans leader."

"That must mean that it's a fairly restrictive society.", grumbled
Riker.

"Not exactly, Commander,", said Dr. Crusher, "the Gundans tribe knew
well that a single tribe doing a single function could possibly
paralyse their hold on society, and places 3 tribes in a single
redesignation, letting the competitive instincts take over. Rivalry in
occupation is held as admirable. Also, mating is rather interesting,
with a concept of a sacred tribal bog for each tribe. It is a
near-virtue to capture a female from a rival tribe and have
her...breed for your tribe.". Her face soured at that, but she
continued. "The education of the offspring is done by a chosen member
of the individual tribe, overseen by a Gundans "observer"; the
tadpoles are taught their duties almost as soon as they become mature.
If the Federation considers relations with these beings, I'd advise
them to tread _very_ carefully."

"And why is that?", asked Picard, "Are their beliefs similar to the
Mintakans or other xenophobes?"

Dr. Crusher replied, "On the contrary. The Worglup religion has a
belief in many worlds, each of them as a stage in development-"

"And they are their own pinnacle, I'm sure.", rumbled Worf.

"Actually, Mr. Worf, no. The highest form for them is an intelligent
wnaderer of space-similar to the Gumtu entity we and the Romulans
encountered not long ago. The fact that we are more accomplished at
space travel than they may possibly make them put us on a sort of
pedestal-we're seen as superior beings of a limited sort.", Crusher
answered testily.

A bleeping emanated from the intercom. "Communications to Captain
Picard-this is Communications Officer Sturax speaking.", it sqwawked.
   
The captain hit his communicator. "Picard here. What's the matter?",
he asked.

"We are getting a beamed transmission from the planet to us. We're
feeding it through the translator-ah, no, it's a visual transmission-
putting it on the screen in the conference room now.",  Sturax said.

All the heads turned to face the screen as it went from its usual
black to what was apparently a studio, with a group of vaguely
humanoid, spotted, slimy skinned beings gazing directly into the
camera.

"I've seen these markings before, captain. They're Gundans folk. I
wonder what they're going to do...", murmured Dr. Crusher.

As she explained who the beings were, they began a slow gronking, and
almost as soon as this was being heard by the tortured ears of all
present, Data keyed in the universal translator, asking it to
translate that which had been previously heard as well. Out of the
speaker grille, the following was heard.

"Most honored divine body, we implore you to show us mercy upon your
new visitation. Harm us not, we ask of you, as we have only tried to
obey the precepts of our fathers as best we can. Show us, we beg, that
thy mercy and thy benevolence is truly boundless. Continue thy grand
journey through the heavens, and pity us with a gift from thy grand
stores as thou hast done in times past with our world and our lives.
Amen.", the speaker monotonously sqwawked.

The screen went blank, and an EOT blip was heard from the speaker.
The stunned party shook for a moment, and Riker was heard to say,
"Damn. Not only have they found us, but they already worship us. Now
what? Leave them to the tender mercies of any tramp spacer who bumbles
along?"

Picard thought for a moment, and replied, "Certainly not. The right
thing to do, I feel, is to explain to them that perhaps we might be
more _technically_ advanced, but certainly not spiritually."

"Sir, they view the entire idea of space travel as divinely granted.
Saying that will destroy their entire culture. Perhaps hedging on the
issue might be best-establishing diplomatic relations will take much
too long.", said Dr. Crusher.

"But the commander is right. Another spacecraft might well happen into
this system, and possibly take advantage of their beliefs. An official
presence, backed up with Starfleet muscle, will prevent that.",
replied Worf.

"I think I've got the inklings of an idea. Dr. Crusher, I'd like to
speak to the person who did most of the research on Worglupian
culture, as soon as can be arranged. The rest of you, please return to
your posts, or to your quarters. Thank you for your knowledge during
the briefing; I'll see all of you tomorrow at the start of the second
shift, please?", announced Picard.

The "night" shift and "morning" shift passed somewhat uneventfully for
most on board the Enterprise. As the bells rang for "afternoon" shift,
the group gathered in the conference room. Standing by the captain's
side was a slim Caitian wearing the blue uniform of a scientist, who
nodded affably to Dr. Crusher as she entered. "Good afternoon, ladies
and gentlemen. I have spent several hours with Ensign Kaasi, a social
scientist, who has been doing the major research on Worglup culture.
She has been develping a strategy for establishing governmental
relations between the Federation and the people of the world below.
Ensign?", Picard said welcomingly.

The Caitian bowed slightly and began. "One of our major problems with
starting this series of affairs is that Lt. Commander Troi is on
sabbatical on Alpha Centauri for the 470th conference of
psychoanalysts. Her help would have been most invaluable at this
point, but I have nevertheless created a strategem for diplomacy.
First, we should try to establish two-way video contact, and tell them
that we are of the second spacefaring stage-manned flight-and that we
are representatives of a group of a people in such a stage who go
about exploring the void of Holy Space. We should also inform them that
we are willing to help them in their advance as well. Hopefully, that
ought to be enough to convince the Gundans leaders that we are
beneficial for their sakes, and enough for us to begin the standard
technological transfer/potential UFP memberworld procedure."

"What if they are hostile instead?", asked Riker.

"Unlikely at best, sir. Their religion has been a solid pillar of
society for generations, and to doubt the words of a space traveller
would be close to heresy, particularly if they came only to help.",
Kaasi replied.

"Are there any other problems with this scheme?", asked Picard.

"If they wanted us to appear in person-what then?", asked Geordi.

"Once again, sir, the advantage of finding a civilization that
worships extraterrestrials. They'd never lay a hand on you in harm.",
said Kaasi, "Are there any other questions, sirs?". 

"I don't think so, Ensign. Please return to your station.", said
Picard, "And thank you for a most enlightening lecture.".

The ensign bowed to the assembly again and left, tail twitching. Data
said, "Given that it has been almost one of their rotation cycles
since their message to us, would it not be appropriate for us to make
our reply to them?".

"Quite so, Mr. Data. In fact, I think we'll do that right now.
Gentlemen, let's welcome our new friends.", said Picard as he rose
from his seat, and strode into the bridge. The backup crew left as the
companions of Picard soon took their places. "Mr. Worf, please find an
antenna large enough to receive our signal, and send this message down
to it: To the leaders of Darkonta, the Gundans: We are voyagers in
space, yet mortal as you are, we being in only the second stage. This
craft is one filled with explorers and scientists, people who are
eager to help you in our quests for the infinite. We only ask that
there be only friendship and respect between our 2 peoples. Please
reply.".

"Immediately, sir.", replied Worf, an after a few moments, he nodded
and said, "Download completed. I think that they will be
most...astonished to hear this.".

It didn't take long for the reply to be broadcast. Worf, noticing the
transmission light, instantly sent the video message to the screen. The
same group of Gundans leaders appeared on the screen, this time
looking far less frightened, and one stepped forward to say, "It is
most fortunate for us that you have appeared. You have offered us the
chance to advance our low state faster than anytime known before, and
we joyfully accept. Please reply on this same wavelength, and tell us
what we must do to gain these holy gifts.".

Picard and the rest of the crew beamed with joy. He said to Riker, "I
wish all first contacts were this easy. Now, it's a matter of beaming
down to have the Gundans examine and sign the treaty of
protectorateship.". He turned to face the viewscreen. "Leaders of the
Gundans, the ways of my people are that when an agreement has been
reached, that the leaders of both groups should see each other in
person. I and several of my aides would like to travel from our ship
to see your people and explore your world.". 

The Gundans looked perplexed, and talked among themselves for a
moment, but eventually the leader stepped forth. "If we are to see
each other, why should it be upon unholy dirt and not in Holy Space?
Can you not bring us to your craft of wonders?", asked the Gundans.

"Certainly. In fact, I will arrange it immediately. You will be upon
my ship in a twinkling of an eye. May our meeting in the flesh be as
pleasant as this one over space.", replied Picard. He turned to Worf,
and said, "Worf, lock on to their coordinates and have them beamed to
transporter room 3.". Worf nodded as Picard and Riker left the bridge,
leaving Data to take command.

Picard and Riker, along with Chief O'Brian and a small contingent of
security men, arrived at the transporter room in a few minutes. Worf
spoke over the intercom telling O'Brian the coordinates of the
representatives of the Worglups. It did not take long for the
creatures to arrive, wide-eyed and quite frightened by the whole
experience. Picard, clutching a universal translator in his left hand,
beamed and said, "Welcome, my friends. This will be a historic day for
both your world and mine as well. We have much to discuss."

"Indeed, Sacred Traveller through the Void. We are most pleased to be
here, and humbly ask why you wish to see us here and now.", they
replied. When they discovered that it was the device that Picard was
holding in his hand and squawking as they spoke, and speaking as he
squawked, the leader pointed to it and asked, "Is there a demon in
this...thing?"

"No. This is a device that my people's inventors made that takes words
of one people, and turns them into words of another's.", Picard
explained. The Gundans blinked for a moment in wonder, and Picard
continued. "My people are always interested in the ways that other
peoples live by, and some of them would like to go down to the surface
and explore. Would it be possible for an expedition to be set up?" 

"This is why you have brought us up here?", asked the leader.

"Not really. You see, I would like to propose a treaty between my
people and yours, one that will improve your lives as well as letting
us explore your homeworld.", Picard said.

"It seems fitting that you should propose this. Let us see this
treaty, please?", replied the leader.

"Come with me, my friends.", Picard headed off to the conference room,
where the treaty, printed in both languages, lay upon the table. The
Gundans found it different to sit in the seats, but definitely worth
doing. "What are these chairs made out of? They feel as the skins of
consorts!", said one of them.

"It is a material called leather, made from the skins of animals.
Please, make yourselves comfortable.", said Picard. The Gundans
settled down, and the leader snagged the treaty, and read it out loud.

"This treaty states that the leaders of the planet of Darkonta agree
to join the protectorate of planets under the United Federation of
Planets. The United Federation of Planets promises to aid the people
of Darkonta in developing their natural resources, battling any
plagues and widespread illnesses, aiding in their technological
development however possible. In return, the United Federation of
Planets asks for payment for these services, being a mere 10% of all
produced resources that it could have use for, as well as the right to
send explorers to wander the surface below, attempting to discover
what they may about the planet Darkonta and its people without
coercion from either side. 

"It sounds as if you are being lenient with us, Great Traveller. We
become as star wanderers, and your people scarcely receive a tithe of
our bounty. I, as leader of all Worglups and their leaders the tribe
of Gundans, will sign this treaty. How does a person sign this
thing?", he said.

"It is an easy thing.", said Picard. He handed a pen to them, signed
the treaty as representative of the UFP, and the Worglup copied his
grip, and signed his name as well.

"Now, that wasn't all that difficult, was it?", beamed the captain.

"Indeed so, Traveller. How does this aid begin, and when does it
start?", asked the leader.

"A small party of my people will join you on the surface, and they
will be able to help you, and also call out for help to us if the
problems below are extreme. Consider them as ambassadors.", replied
Picard. He turned to Riker, and asked him, "Commander, has a group of
development and sociological personnel been formed yet?".

"Yes, sir. They're ready to beam down as soon as the Worglups would
prefer to leave.", he answered.

"Good.", said Picard. He turned to the Worglups, who were talking
among themselves, and said, "My friends, the group who will help you
has been assembled. Would you care to meet them before you arrive
home?".

"Yes, of course, Traveller. However, we want to tell our people of
your great charity, and to do that we want to be home.", said the
leader.

"Not a problem. You will meet them in the same room that you arrived
in.", said Picard.

The group got up and left the conference room, and back to the
transporter room. Assembled there was a group of ensigns and
lieutenants, along with their gear-mostly sociologists and tech types-
who snapped to attention when Riker and Picard entered. "These are our
helpers?", asked one of the Worglups, "They looked as scared as
children.".

"For some, it is their first time on a mission of this sort. 
We have, however, put some experienced folk in.", said Picard.
The group members introduced themselves to the Worglups, who nodded,
and said to them, "Because of what you are to do for us, we can only
marvel. Our world is staggered in debt. You are coming as angels, as
we have dreamed...Please, honored visitors, consider Darkonta as your
home, and do the things that all do with their home: make it better,
and brighter, and richer. Please, come home with us. Honored
Traveller, let us go home!". The leader waved his arms expansively all
through this speech, and applause rang in the room.

"Since you wish to go home, friends, it is homeward bound for all.
Good luck, goodbye, and farewell.", said Picard, strainedly. Playing a
divinity grates on my nerves, he thought. Crooking a finger to Chief
O'Brien, he and the others left as the group of Worglups and Feds went
to a planet deep into celebrating its fortune, the fortune of being
found out.

	          		THE  END 

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%

--
Craig\The Moonman\Levin                      Pedro Alcazar
moonman@buhub.bradley.edu 	House Of The Moss Rose, Barony of
				Illiton, Middle Kingdom
"Space is big, space is dark, you'll always find a place to park!"
-Burma Shave


