-*- Posted to Usenet by Lawrence Wright, Sysop of Silicon Heaven
-*- +44 (0) 626 834331. 9pm - 5.30am GMT/UTC - 2:255/76@fidonet.org
-*- Story (C) Paul Hubbard - 2:255/76.5@fidonet.org
-*-                          phubb@nowster.demon.co.uk

REMATCH

Part One:

Far out at the edge of Federation space was the planetary star
system known as 202.  For several years, 202 marked the end of
explored territory.  Beyond it was the great void, fully
unexplored.  Normally, ten or fifteen years would pass, the
fronteer boundary would move on and Outpost 202 would revert to
it's old designated name, KR13-23.  For some strange reason,
Federation starships had not explored pass this point.  Even more
puzzling was the blanket ban on ships passing 202 and entering
the great unexplored expanse.  So important was this that it
warranted a general order, directly from the Council no less. 
And then, finally, with fresh orders, a Federation survey ship
came.


Co-ordinator Farrell sat uneasily at his console.  For several
hours, his monitoring teams, here on outpost 202, far on the edge
of Federation space, had been scanning unexplored sectors for
signs of their research ship , USS Naylor.  The ship had been
sent on a secret mission to  a adjoining unexplored sector and
was now three weeks overdue.  Starfleet command, in their wisdom,
had sent a starship, the USS Glover, to assist in the search.
The USS Glover had reported finding the missing research ship in
orbit around a previously undiscovered planet before
communications were suddenly cut off.  Since then, there had been
nothing but static punctuated by the calls of the outpost
communications centre.  No reply was forthcoming.

The door chimed.

"Enter", came Farrell's reply. 
The door opened and in stepped his second in command, Sub Co-
ordinator Harris.

"Co-ordinator", cried Harris.  "Our scans have picked up two
ships on a approach vector."

"Have they acknowledged our hails???????"

"No Sir, the communications have been silent.  Nothing has been
received at any of our communication posts."

"Strange".  Farrell fingers pounded in desk in thoughtful
anticipation, "I would have expected some sort of message????".
Farrell pondered for a few more seconds, then added "I know the
captain of the Glover.  Knight and me go right back to academy
days.  He wouldn't keep silent like this unless something was
seriously wrong."

"Maybe their communications systems are down Sir" replied Harris.

"On both ships?, one maybe, two together, no way".  Farrell
thumbed a button on his desk.  A female voice answered.
"Communications, has there been any reply yet?".  "No Sir" came
the reply, "all communications channels are silent.  However,
according to out scans, both ships communications systems are
operative.  They can hear us sir.".  She paused for a moment,
unable to believe what her eyes were telling her.  "Sir!!!", she
cried, "Both ships have broken off their courses and have assumed
a attack posture".

"Godammit, what is going on?" replied Farrell.  He turned several
possiblities over in his mind, then acted.  "Get the colony
shields up NOW".  His desk panel confirmed the shields going up.
"Communications, get a message off immediately to the nearest
friendlies, tell them we are under attack".  A large explosion
shook the ground nearby.  On the desk displays, half the shield
indicators went out.

Harris looked stunned.  "Sir", he replied, ....Sir, this is
strange.....The phaser fire is being directed at the shield
generators only!!!!".  Another explosion shook the ground and the
lights dimmed momentarily before regaining their former
brilliance.  The sound of a deeper explosion filled the room and
the lights went out.

"All shields are down Sir" called Harris.  "We have a complete
system failure and the main fusion reactor is down.".

In the corridor outside, the sounds of phaser fire and a scuffle
were audiable.  The door to the co-ordinators office blew open
and two men in Federation uniform enter.  Harris made a lunge for
them but was too slow.  A phaser spat and he fell to the ground.
"Outside....NOW" barked the aggressor, "and drag your friend with
you".

Farrell squinted as he stumbled outside.  Multiple fires burned
in the midday air.  In the distance, the remains of the shield
generator burned fiercely.  The colonists had been rounded up
into a large group, guarded by other men toting phasers.  A man
in a captains uniform stepped forward to Farrell.

"Co-ordinator Farrell, I presume?".

Farrell looked stunned.  This was the same Knight he knew from
the academy days...but...he was acting like a complete stranger.

"I am captain Knight, of the Glover.  I trust none of your
colonists are hurt...hmmmm...."

"What in gods name do you think you are playing at" replied
Farrell.  "Don't you recognise me.  Its Farrell, your old buddy
from the academy. Why attack my colony, are you mad, have you
lost your mind?  Why don't you recognise me...."

"Im afraid captain Knight is having a short....break right now.". 
Knight paused for a few seconds, looked around and, finally
satisfied with what he saw, tapped his communicator.  "Knight to
Glover.".  A voice replied.  "Start beaming down the...cargo.."

Multiple transporter chimes filled the air.  Stacks of small
pallets began to appear.  Knight turned and walked over to one
of the pallets.  As he turned, Farrell noticed a small blue lump
at the base of Knight's neck.  Knight stopped at the pallet and
picked up a small container, pulled open the lid and then walked
over to where Farrell was standing.  He showed Farrell the
contents of the box.  Inside was some sort of a multi legged
insect with Stag beetle like pincers, light violet in colour. 
Farrell recoiled in disgust.

"You don't understand" crooned Knight.  He turned to the gathered
colonists.  "You don't understand, we mean you no harm.".  He
turned to Farrell.  "We seek... peaceful... co-existence".

 
End of Part one.


Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!pipex!uknet!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
~From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
~Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
~Subject: TNG Story: Rematch (Part 2)
~Date: 14 May 1994 10:23:10 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
~Lines: 136
Message-ID: <2r2tte$cq3@nyx10.cs.du.edu>

-*- Posted to Usenet by Lawrence Wright, Sysop of Silicon Heaven
-*- +44 (0) 626 834331. 9pm - 5.30am GMT/UTC - 2:255/76@fidonet.org
-*- Story (C) Paul Hubbard - 2:255/76.5@fidonet.org
-*-                          phubb@nowster.demon.co.uk

REMATCH

Part two.

On the bridge of the Enterprise, Riker yawned.  It had been one
of those long, boring afternoon watches.  Nothing to do, nothing
to see, well, that was a lie.  Plenty to see from the viewer. 
Still, the shift was dragging on.  He looked over his shoulder
and noticed Worf running the ships defense and weapons systems
through another tedious test cycle.  If there was one member of
the crew who was guaranteed to find something to do, then it was
Worf.  'Good luck to him' thought Riker.

Data was sitting in his usual spot.  Of the officers aboard the
Enterprise, Data could put his hand, if he so wished, on the spot
where his heart should be and claim he was not bored.  Just
thinking about this made Riker feel worse.  Riker scanned around
the bridge.  Everybody had something to do, something to keep
themselves busy, and here was Will Riker, First officer of the
Federation flagship Enterprise.....Bored.

He sighed, then smirked as he reflected on the fact that he
wouldn't give up his job for anybody.  No, here was where he
belonged and here he would stay.

The Turbolift doors opened and Picard and Troi entered.

Riker could overhear Picard chatting to Troi about a symposium
he was to speak at.  Troi was doing her best not to look bored
as well but it was a struggle.  Riker paused for a few seconds
before he remembered that the symposium was due to be held on
Raisa.  He smiled, no longer bored, 'have Horgaan will travel'
he thought.

Worf's communication panel chimed.
'Sir' cried Worf, "I have a priority one message from Starfleet
coming in"

"In my ready room please Mr Worf", and with that he walked off.

Picard sat down at his desk.  'Computer, pipe through incoming
message to this terminal'.  The terminal screen flashed a
stardate time stamp, then cleared to reveal the face of a man,
greying slightly, looking weather beaten.  Admiral Greyson always
looked like somebody had left him out in the rain overnight.

"Admiral Greyson to Captain Picard.  Due to your distance this
is a relay message only".  He paused, coughed, then continued. 
"On stardate 48233.4, Starbase 212 received a coded distress
message from Outpost 202.  Before communications were cut off,
they stated the colony was under attack from two Federation
ships.  All communications were lost after a few cycles of the
message.  Your orders are to proceed to Outpost 202, make a full
assessment of the situation and take whatever steps are
necessary.".  He paused and his features softened.  "I'm sorry
Jean Luc, I know you was looking forward to giving the lecture
at Raisa but this is of importance.  We need to know just what
in hell is going on.  Keep me posted, good luck.  Message out.".

The terminal screen darkened.

Picard stood, straightened his uniform and walked out onto the
bridge.  He stopped next to Data.  "Mr Data, plot a course for
outpost 202".  He motioned to the helmsman, "Warp factor 6"
"Course laid in Sir" replied Data.
"Engage, have all senior officer in the briefing room at .7 Mr
Riker." and with that he walked to the Turbolift.

'That's my boring day over with', thought Riker.


In the briefing room, all the senior officers were present.  Dr
Crusher was discussing something with Troi.  Data looked his
usual, totally non plussed.  LaForge was consulting his PADD.
The door swished open and Picard and Riker entered.  Riker sat
down whilst Picard looked around the desk, checking to see
everyone was there.

"Gentlemen, and ladies. I'm sorry to have to call you here at
short notice.  I trust you have seen the communique from command. 
Can I have your comments".

Worf piped up.  "Captain, we must assume the colony was attacked
by a belligerent force and we must assume a aggressive posture".

"Mr Worf", replied Picard, "before we go galavanting into a
potential battle zone, we must remember that two of our ships are
involved.  Countless innocents may be injured in our haphazard
attempts at rescue".

"547 colonists Sir, with 730 assorted ships compliments on both
vessels." interjected Data.

"Thank you Data, any other points?"

Troi piped up.  "Sir, I have been examining the personnel records
for both captains of the two ships.  The is nothing in them that
would give a indication as to why they would both suddenly
change.  Both captains are role model officers and are held in
the highest esteem by their crews.  A further search found that
the sector past outpost 202 has been neglected by survey teams."

"Well, there's nothing wrong in that.  We only have certain
starships capable of exploration, of which the Enterprise is
one."

"Im in full agreement sir, however, just under a month ago, a
ship, the USS Glover, was detailed to do a expedition sweep of
the area."

Data cut in.  "Sir, there has been a Federation council ban on
any ships passing 202.  It has been made into a general order. 
Now, for some reason, without the councils knowledge, a Starship
has been sent past 202.  I have accessed all the records
available but there is no record of who sent the orders or where
the order originated."

Picard sat and digested this information for a few seconds.  "I
think a subspace message querying the orders should be sent to
Starfleet command".  Riker agreed.  "I see from your individual
reports that a ships systems are up to scratch.  Are there any
other comments?" concluded Picard.
   
Nobody stirred.  "Mr Data, how long to arrival at outpost 202"
"Approximately 22.34Hrs sir at present speed" replied Data.

"Very good, meeting adjourned", and with that, they all filed out
of the briefing room.


End of part two.

Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
~From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
~Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
~Subject: TNG Story: Rematch (Part 3)
~Date: 14 May 1994 10:23:59 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
~Lines: 220
Message-ID: <2r2tuv$cs2@nyx10.cs.du.edu>

-*- Posted to Usenet by Lawrence Wright, Sysop of Silicon Heaven
-*- +44 (0) 626 834331. 9pm - 5.30am GMT/UTC - 2:255/76@fidonet.org
-*- Story (C) Paul Hubbard - 2:255/76.5@fidonet.org
-*-                          phubb@nowster.demon.co.uk

REMATCH

Part 3.

"Captains log:  Supplemental.
The Enterprise is now a few hours from the planetary system where
outpost 202 is sited.  I have, time and time again, been mulling
over what course of action to take.  Starfleet intelligence has
given me little clues to go and I am forced to assume that the
worse possible scenario has occurred, namely that both ships have
been taken over by a hostile force and the crews either captured
or dead.  It is with this in mind that I have decided to go in
on a war footing and try not to get 'caught with my pants down'
like Admiral Kirk nearly a century ago.  I just hope that I have
come to the right decision."


The Enterprise was on yellow alert.  For over a hour, she had
been slowly entering the planetary system where Outpost 202 was
sited.  Due to a possible intruder incursion, the scanners on the
Enterprise were running on passive mode.  Worf hated it.  He knew
that the best way to find any intruders within the system was to
set the scanning systems on active mode.  Doing this would
instantly show up every planet, rock and vessel within a parsec
of the Enterprise's current position.  Worf also knew that
setting the scanners to active mode would make the Enterprise
stick out like a sore thumb, a perfect target for everybody to
see, all surprise gone.  Worf really hated it.

Picard looked around the bridge, checking that nothing was amiss. 
He also knew that scanning using passive mode only was slow and
tedious.  Time was playing heavily on the bridge crew.  If
nothing happened soon, they would start to get bored and a bored
crew would start to make mistakes.  Picard knew he would dearly
love to use full active scanner mode but, as the old Earth adage
about April weather goes..In like a lamb, out like a Lion. In
like a lion, out like a lamb..., that would be suicide.  In like
a lion on full scan mode and they would possibly be going out
like a lamb, a very dead lamb, and in little pieces.  Best to go
in quietly, that way you can keep the advantage and go out like
a lion.

"Mr Worf", intoned Picard for the umpteenth time.  "Any thing on
the sensor scans?"

"Nothing Sir" replied Worf, "Apart from Outpost 202 and
surrounding planets and a small comet at 322 Mark4, there is
nothing to note."

"Keep scanning Mr Worf" concluded Picard.

'What would make a man snap' he thought.  He had heard of Knight. 
A brilliant man, family back on Earth, well liked and respected
by his crew.  None of it made sense.  Then again, what
circumstances would make the captain of the research ship snap
as well.  No, it had to be outside forces at work here.  Floating
here with minimal sensors didn't help to find any answers either. 
A plan started to formulate within Picards head.

"Bridge to Engineering"

"Engineering here Captain" replied LaForge, "What can I do for
you sir?"

"Mr LaForge, would we be spotted if the sensors were programmed
for a one second active burst?"

"Sorry captain, we would still stick out like a flashlight on a
dark night".  Geordi paused for a few second, deep in thought,
then a idea hit him.  "Now, if you could cloak behind something
whilst doing it, something like a small moon...."

"I get your drift Mr LaForge, bridge out.  Mr Data, position the
Enterprise behind that small moon over there.  Mr Worf, can you
direct a sensor burst to bounce off that other moon over there?"

"A few minutes to set up Sir" came Worfs answer.

Riker turned to Picard. "Brilliant idea Sir, how did you think
of it?"

Picard thought for a few seconds.  "Reading those old history
books number one.  During the WW1 and 2 wars, submarines were
fitted with periscopes to enable them to hide whilst being able
to look for enemy targets.  It's not quite the same thing but I'm
sure it will work."

The Enterprise rounded the bulk of the small moon, and it was
then that Picard realised he wasn't the only one to have the same
idea.  Ahead of them was the USS Glover, all shields up and all
weapons to bear.

"My god", cried Picard.  "RED ALERT" barked Riker, "Shields to
maximum strength, power up all phaser banks...."

The Glover got in the first shot.  Three phaser bursts hit the
Enterprises saucer section.  Not to be outdone, Worf, acting on
him own, got off a volley of torpedoes.  One struck the Glover
near her shuttlebays.  

Picard acted.  "Mr Data, move us away from the moon.  I want as
much space to manoeuvre in as possible.  Lock phasers on the
Glover and fire..."

Several more hits struck the Enterprise.

"Shields three, seven and fifteen are down sir" called Worf, "I
am attempting to cover with surrounding shields".  Another round
of phaser fire hit home.  "Sir, hull breach, deck 5, sector 31."

The computer chimed once then spoke, "WARNING: OUTER HULL BREACH"

Several more hits struck the Enterprise and the computer cut in
again, "WARNING:  INNER HULL BREACH;  EXPLOSIVE DECOMPRESSION IN
DECKS 5 AND 6, SECTORS 31 AND 32"

Down in the affected sectors, several people were sucked into
space as the bulkhead disappeared in a explosion of flame and
sparks.  Just as the air started to rush out, emergency force
fields cut in and contained the damaged area.

"Damm, they're all over us" yelled Riker.

"Enough is enough number one, Course 123 Mark 10, warp two for
ten second then curve around towards that comet we spotted."

Enterprise streaked away from the Glover.  To Picard's
expectation, the Glover started to follow.  As Enterprise changed
course towards the comet, the Glover slowed to a halt.

"He isn't following us, why???" exclaimed Riker.

"I think I can answer that.." replied Data, "The comet we are
heading for is not a comet.."

"Elaborate" said Picard.

"Viewer magnification x1000".  Several seconds passed before the
realisation set in.  "As I suspected sir, the comet is not a
comet.  It is a fleet of ships masquerading as a comet and we are
heading straight for them at warp 2"

The comm panel sounded.  "Engineering to Bridge, LaForge here
captain".

"Go ahead Mr LaForge".

"We have serious problems down here captain.  The buffeting has
opened up a crack in the dilithium in the reaction chamber.  If
we keep going like this, the crystal could shatter.."

Picard got the message.  If the dilithium shattered then matter
and antimatter would mix directly.  Bang, no more Enterprise.

"Can you keep the shields up Mr LaForge?"

"Captain, you can either have shields or warp drive, not both. 
I can put in a new crystal but it would take at least a hour
without being bounced around to align".  A loud crunch was
clearly heard over the comms.  "CAPTAIN", cried Laforge, "Drop
the shields NOW"

Picard got the message.  "Mr Worf, lower shields.  I think at
this point that disgression is quite clearly the better part of
valour.  Plot a course away from both parties, best possible
speed."

"Captain" growled Worf.  "You are running away!!!"

"No Mr Worf, saving ourselves to fight another day."

Worfs panel chimed.  "Sir, I have a incoming subspace message for
you.....it's from the captain of the Glover..."

"Put it on screen Mr Worf.  Might as well see who we are dealing
with.."

The main viewer cleared.  Captain Knight of the Glover appeared.
"Running away Picard?" he sneered, "We are so...disappointed"

"Who are we?" challenged Picard.

"Oh come now Picard, you remember US.  Six years ago, you
eradicated our advance invasion force.  We have been very careful
these last few years.  You see, we are now ready."

A small bell went off in Picards head.  Six years ago.  Who?.
The truth started to dawn on him.  The death of his old friend
Walker Keel and the destruction of his ship, the Horatio.  The
fire fight at Starfleet headquarters.  The death of Remick and
the strange creature that had taken him over.  Picard started to
look sick.

"Now now Picard, you remember us???.  Maybe this will remind you"

Knight bent over revealing the back of his neck.  A small blue
gill protruded.

"Still in the dark Picard?  How about my little friend here."

Knight held up a small container, inside it was the multilegged,
light purple creature that Picard and Riker knew so well.

"You see" continued Knight, "we mean you no harm.  We just seek
peaceful coexistence....."

"Close channels" concluded Picard.  The viewer reverted back to
the starfield.  "Package a recording of all events and send to
Command.  Now we know who we are up against.  Plot a course for
the nearest starbase.  We need repairs number one."

The Enterprise withdrew.  Round one to the aggressors.




Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
~From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
~Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
~Subject: TNG Story: Rematch (Part 4)
~Date: 14 May 1994 10:24:42 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
~Lines: 245
Message-ID: <2r2u0a$cub@nyx10.cs.du.edu>

-*- Posted to Usenet by Lawrence Wright, Sysop of Silicon Heaven
-*- +44 (0) 626 834331. 9pm - 5.30am GMT/UTC - 2:255/76@fidonet.org
-*- Story (C) Paul Hubbard - 2:255/76.5@fidonet.org
-*-                          phubb@nowster.demon.co.uk

REMATCH Part four.


Captains log; Supplimental.
Repairs to the Enterprise have been going on since we arrived at
Starbase 212 two days ago.  Most of the damage inflicted during
the fire fight was superficial but most repair time has been
allocated to upgrading the phaser and photorp systems.  I have
been promised that all will be ship shape and Bristol fashion
within the next few hours.  On the basis of our log report,
Starfleet command has cut orders for all available ships within
the sector to rondevous with us at 212.  I just hope we will be
in time to stop the enemy fleet which is now massing out at
Outpost 202.  I cannot help feeling that I will be loosing old
friends in the oncomeing conflict.


The Enterprise had been at Starbase 212 for five days receiving
repairs to her battle damage.  The USS Glover had inflicted minor
damage, not enough to order a retreat but with the Dilithium
crystal going at the same time, Picard's hands were tied.

Within his ready room, Picard sat studying his PADD.  Starfleet
command had replied to his urgent communication message about the
approaching invader fleet with all the speed of a Tortoise, not
that Picard would know what a Tortoise was.  They had been
extinct on Earth now for nearly three centuries and were liable
to stay that way unless the offworld DNA labs could clone some
like they had been promising for years.  Starfleet command knew
that the invading fleet couldn't be taken lying down and had
hastily given orders for all available starships within the
quadrant to head for Starbase 212.  Much to Picard's pleasure,
the Enterprise had been designated 'Flagship' of the fleet.

The door chimed.

"Come", answered Picard.  The door opened and Riker entered.
"Ah, Number one, I've just started going over these fleet
assignments.  Quite stimulating."

"I take it you haven't read the full list sir, there are one or
two surprises there." replied Riker.

Picard stared at the list for a few more seconds.  "I don't see
what you mean number one....", he scanned for a few more seconds
and then stopped dead at a entry.

"My oh my.." exclaimed Picard, "It's my old ship, the
Stargazer...".  He paused again for a few more seconds.  "But
that's impossible, they told me she was only fit for scrap...."

"You know how it is sir" said Riker, "Since the encounter with
the Borg at Wolf 359, Starfleet has been pulling just about every
old ship out of mothballs and refurbishing them.  I may interest
you to know that the Hathaway is also on that list as well..."

"I know number one.  I did hear rumours that Starfleet was
raiding the space museum at Moonbase , but I thought that was
just a myth.....still.....you can never tell."

Picard got up, pulled on the front of his tunic and walked over
to the replicator.  "Tea..Earl Grey...Hot" he intoned.  Carrying
the cup, he walked back over to his desk and sat back down.
"According to this list number one, the Stargazer should arrive
within the next few hours. I wonder who the captain is....must
be on this list somewhere.....ah, here it is.  Commanding
officer:  Captain J.T Hollander.  Can't say I know him."

"I do sir" replied Riker, "Hollander and myself were at the
academy together.  He's good, strong, reliable and above all
dependable.  Very good in tactical thinking.  The negative side
is that me is a terrible crawler."


"By whose standards?"

"Most serving officers at the academy, I'm afraid."

"Hmmmm" exclaimed Picard.  "I daresay he'll be after my job next,
going by his record."

The door chimed.  "Come"

The door opened and Dr Crusher walked in, her red hair wafting
in the breeze from the air conditioning system.  She seemed to
have something on her mind.

"Ah, the good doctor, what can I do for you?"

Beverley stopped walking, composed herself and then addressed
Picard.

"Sir, All regulations concerning sickbay have been attended to. 
Sickbay is now ready to cope with virtually anything thrown at
it."

"Very good doctor, however, I can see there is something else on
your mind, anything I can do to help?"

"Well" replied Beverley, "According to my PADD, the USS Stargazer
docks within the next few hours and I was wondering if I could
go over when we are transferring supplies?"

"Well, normally I wouldn't mind one bit doctor, however, we are
working under different circumstances.  Is there any particular
reason?".  From the corner of his eye, Picard could see Riker
with a knowing grin.  This had to be good.

Bev smiled.  "Well captain, I would like to visit my son at his
new posting."

Picard blinked, his mouth opened.  "You mean Wesley?,...on the
Stargazer?..."

"I only had one son the last time I looked.." replied Beverley. 
"It's his first posting out of the academy and I haven't seen him
for a couple of years."

Picard needed no prompting.  "Permission granted doctor.  Oh, and
doctor, convey my best wishes to the young Ensign."

"Thank you Sir".  She turned and walked out.

"Will, you are nothing but a old fraud.  You could have told me
in advance that Wesley was on that ship!"

"And miss your face" replied Riker, "no fear.  I'm very surprised
at his meteoric rise to his current position.  Just shows you
can't keep a good man down."

"Agreed" replied Picard, and with that he set his PADD down and
walked out onto the bridge with Riker.


Several hours later, the last of the ships sent to fleet duties
had arrived at 202 and taken up position within the fleet.  Out
on the starboard perimeter sat the Stargazer, fully operational
with the latest devices and gadgets that Starfleet engineering
had to offer and with that a new captain.  To some she looked
like a bucket of bolts but to Picard, the old lady looked
stately.  Picard couldn't put it off any longer.

"Mr Worf, open a communication channel to the Stargazer"

Worf looked up.  "In your ready room sir?"

"No, on the main viewer" replied Picard.

The starfield blanked out to a image of the Starfleet logo.  This
lasted for a few seconds then changed to the image of a bridge,
The bridge of the USS Stargazer.  In Picards old chair sat a man,
around the same age as Riker, close cut hair and rugged face. 
'Not the kind of man to cross' mused Picard.

Hollander got in the first shot.

"Ah, Captain Picard, may myself and my crew express our pleasure
in serving in the task force."

Picard turned and looked at Riker with a sour look.  Picard hated
crawlers, especially ones that gave the impression of wanting
your job.  His reply had better be good.

"Captain Hollander, the pleasure is all mine.  I'm sure you know
my first officer, Commander Riker"

"Of course, of course.  Hello Will, I hope he's not working you
to the bone ha ha."

Riker could only manage a sickly smile.  Yup, this was the James
Hollander he remembered.  Still, whatever his faults, he was one
brilliant man, almost as good as himself, he thought modestly.

Hollander cut in.  "Ah Captain, I'm also sure you know
my....rather dependerble fifth officer, Mr Crusher?"

Riker gave Picard a surprised look.  He had taken a passing
interest in young Wesley's career since he went to the academy. 
The only thing was, he didn't know just how fast Wesley's
promotion up the ranks was.  Picard kept a straight face.

"Yes, I know Mr Crusher quite well, we've been in a few 'scrapes'
together.  Good to see you again Wesley."

"Thank you sir, and you too" replied Wes.

"I was just calling to see how the old girl was.  It's been many
years since I walked the deckplates on her.  I understand she's
been refitted with the latest technology from the engineering
laboratories?"

Now it was Hollanders turn to squirm.  He didn't know that the
Stargazer was once Picard's ship.

"Yes, all new control systems" he replied.  "A complete new
computer system, new warp core and auxiliary systems.  The best
that Starfleet has to offer.  Not quite as fast as your 'Hotel',
but she'll give you a run for your money."

"I would've liked to have come over for a inspection tour,"
replied Picard, "but what with the fleet to manage, time is a
luxury.  Another time perhaps?"

"Another time would be fine.  Anyhow, I really must be cutting
off now, we are just about ready for the warp jump to the
outpost.  Stargazer out."

The screen blanked.  Picard was glad that was all over.  He
turned to Riker.

"Number one, he was at the academy with you?"

"I'm afraid so sir.  That's the Hollander I remember, only his
head seems to have got a little bigger since I last saw him!"

Troi cut in.  "Going by that remark, it maybe a bit of a problem
finding a EVA suit to fit him?"

"I'm sure you are probably right" replied Picard.  "Mr Worf, it's
now time, open communications to all ships of the fleet."

"Communications open sir."

Picard stood, straightened his top, then faced the viewer.
"This is Captain Picard, commanding officer of the USS
Enterprise, flagship for the fleet.  Set course for Outpost 202
and stand ready for my mark. 
Fifteen second countdown for engagement of warp
engines......Mark......and gentlemen, good luck to us all,
Enterprise out."

Fifteen seconds after the mark, twenty five starships, the best
that Starfleet could muster in a short time engaged their warp
drives and popped into Subspace for the transit to outpost 202.

Who would be the victor?  Only the gods....and Q knew....

 

REMATCH part 5

A few billion kilometres from outpost 202, space wavered,
stretched, then exploded into streaks of colour as the lead ships
of the fleet dropped out of warp, billowing Cherenkov radiation
behind them.  Space finally righted itself as the last stragglers
came out of warp and matched velocity with the rest of the fleet. 
At the head of the diamond formation was the USS Enterprise. 
Under Picard's plans, the Enterprise was designated the lead
ship.  This was no act of bravado by Picard, far from it.  It was
just that the Enterprise's sensors were far superior than the
other ships.  On the far Port quarter sat the Hathaway and on the
far Starboard quarter sat the Stargazer.  Finally, with all final
checks complete, the fleet started the long drop sunward to
Outpost 202, and it's fate.....



Picard sat in his chair, since arrival at outpost 202, all the
ships of the fleet were standing at yellow alert.  Problems were
starting to occur almost immediately.  Even with the sensors
running at full power, no trace of the enemy was evident.  Best
thing was to keep going, keep looking.  The problem was the
nagging doubt that haunted Picard.  Had he missed something
vitally important?

"Number one" called Picard, "any ideas to the whereabouts of the
enemy?"

"Nothing whatsoever" replied Riker, he was just as non plussed
as everybody else.  "There's absolutely no way we could have
missed them.  Intelligence are usually never wrong."

Picard chewed on this for a few seconds.  "As I recall, it was
intelligence who dropped me into that business with the
Cardassians.......  Mr Worf, anything from the other ships?"

"Nothing at all Sir.  However, the captains of the other ships
are getting a little......worried......"

"I fully sympathise with them Mr Worf, however, the enemy is here
somewhere and I don't intend to send back a message back to
Starfleet command that twenty five ships could not find a
opposing battle fleet.  Keep scanning."

A few more minutes passed.......

Finally Data cut the ice.  "Sir, I have been monitoring some
strange anomalous readings, coming from all around us."

Riker perked up.  "What readings Data?????"

"Unknown sir, however, they bear a resemblance to the same effect
that our ships have in warp flight.  The effect is definetly
moving but is hard to pinpoint any individual target.  I will
attempt to resolve a single target......"

A few more seconds passed whilst data manipulated the sensor
controls.  Finally, he spoke up.  "Sir, I have a positive lock,
on a target, moving at warp two.  It is circling us at a precise
distance of three million kilometres........The computer has
defined a image of the target, on screen now...."

A section of the main viewer blanked out as the computer
assembled parts on a wire frame.  The design was alien, and bore
a exact resemblance to the original vessels scanned by the
Enterprise in the first encounter.

Picard didn't like it one bit.  Finally, he came to a conclusion.

"RED ALERT.  Mr Worf, continual targeting scan on that vessel,
ready main phasers.  Send full scanning details to all ships of
the fleet."

"I have positive lock sir" intoned Worf.

"Standby Photon torpedoes..." chipped in Riker

Picard sat ready.  "Keep scanning on target, steady,
steady.....FIRE.."

A beam of phaser fire leapt out from the Enterprise, crossed the
gap and connected with the hidden target.  At the heart of the
explosion, a enemy starship dropped out of warp.  A second, then
a third phaser burst hit the ship and it disappeared in a
explosion of flames.

At that moment the rest of the alien battle fleet popped out of
warp, completely surrounding the Starfleet ships.

"It appears we have shaken the Hornets nest number one." observed
Picard.  "All ships, go to Foxtrot manoeuvre on my mark....now."

The diamond formation split neatly down the middle.  The port
section peeled off and began strafing runs on the enemy vessels. 
The starboard section, with the Enterprise in the lead, peeled
off and headed for the other enemy ships.  A vicious firefight
ensued.

The Enterprise was three quarters of the way towards the enemy
ships when the opposing force opened fire.  The Enterprise let
loose several volleys of torpedoes at the enemy but with no
success.  Two lead ships of the enemy fleet scored a lucky hit
on the USS Maxwell and she disappeared in a sleet of fire.  Then,
the enemy ships parted and there stood the Glover, all on her
own.

Picard could hardly believe his luck.  Then the realisation that
it was too easy rung in his head.

"IT'S A TRAP.....plot reciprocal course, quickly, before we're
too late....."

A pale violet beam shot out from the Glover, hitting the
Enterprise on the lower saucer.  The bridge shook violently and
the main lighting dimmed for several seconds before climbing back
to their original intensity.

Worf pulled himself back up off the floor and studied his panel. 
What he saw there shocked him.  "Captain, we have forty seven
percent shield loss."

Riker jumped up, "What!!" he exclaimed.  "What the hell did they
hit us with????"

To answer his question, the main viewer flared up and the image
of Knight filled the screen, glowering.  "Ah.....poor Picard. 
How do you like the power of my plasma cannon..hmmmmm.  Captain
Knight's memories are very useful for constructing new weapons. 
Captain Picard,  I do so like a good fight..."

"Cut him off, NOW" screamed Picard.  The viewer blanked out.

A second pulse from the Glover hit the Enterprise.  Several other
ships of the fleet raced to the rescue but were hit with the same
weapon.  The USS Eagle was unlucky to be the closest and took the
full brunt of the cannon.  She exploded.

Picard had had enough.

"Mr Worf, send to all ships of the fleet, All ships to withdrawn
immediately.  Regroup at T4 co-ordinates.  Mr Laforge, ...can you
keep shields up long enough for us to cover the fleet as we
withdraw????"

Laforge's voice filtered through the comm link.  "That last hit
took out most of the shield systems and half of the backup's. 
I can keep 30 percent shield strength only.  Captain, we're just
picking up the bits down here."

"Do your best, Picard out"

Of the bridge crew, only Data and Picard had sustained little
injury.  Worf had a large gash in one sleeve.  Riker had suffered
a bang on the head which was rapidly swelling.  Troi had come off
the worse with a large gash on her forehead and a bruised jaw. 
Several other crew members had superficial wounds.

"Councillor Troi" called Picard gently, "I suggest you get
yourself down to sick bay immediately".  Troi started to protest. 
Picard cut in.  "No, No, your presence is not needed here at this
time.  If you don't go, Ill have to order you down, much as I
would hate to do that".  Troi left the bridge.

"What we need number one,is some kind of a smoke screen to
withdraw behind"

"Sir?????"

"Bridge to Engineering"

"Engineering, Laforge here"

"Mr LaForge, I want you to back cycle the Bussard Ramscoops to
dump raw hydrogen in front of the Enterprise"

"No problem bridge.  Initiating back cycle."

The bell of comprehension dawned in Rikers head.

"I get it.  Dump raw hydrogen as a smoke screen and withdraw
behind it.  Brilliant thinking sir."

"Yes, I thought so too Number one.  Mr Worf, send to all ships,
we are making smoke.  Got that."

"Yes Sir" replied Worf.

"Was it your idea?" asked Riker.

"Oh no, I'm afraid that honour goes to past masters like Jellico. 
Now then number one, while we withdraw to the regroup co-
ordinates, lets see how badly we fared this time".

In the vacuum of space, the raw hydrogen billowed out into a
large red blanket, several million kilometers long.  The entire
fleet of ships were perfectly hidden from the invading fleet and
started to withdraw to the predetermined regroup co-ordinates.

=====================================CUT HERE===================================
-- 
Joseph Young             Tivoli Systems, Inc
Systems Administrator    9442 Capital of Texas Highway North
joseph.young@tivoli.com  Arboretum Plaza One, Suite 500
Phone:(512) 502-4720     Austin TX 78759           FAX:  (512) 794-9929 

(Message inbox:222)
Received: from eliza.e.kth.se (eliza.e.kth.se [130.237.50.16]) by elixir.e.kth.se (8.6.8.1/8.6.6) with SMTP id EAA23092 for <e93_mny@ELIXIR.E.KTH.SE>; Wed, 8 Feb 1995 04:34:34 +0100
Resent-Message-Id: <199502080334.EAA23092@elixir.e.kth.se>
Resent-Date: Wed, 08 Feb 1995 04:34:48 +0100
Resent-From: <e93_mny@e.kth.se>
Resent-To: <e93_mny@ELIXIR.E.KTH.SE>
Received: from ingr.ingr.com by elmer.e.kth.se (MX V4.1 VAX) with SMTP; Wed, 08
          Feb 1995 04:34:42 +0100
Received: from presto.remote.ingr.com.remote.ingr.com (presto.remote.ingr.com)
          by ingr.ingr.com (5.65c/1.920611) id AA20015; Tue, 7 Feb 1995
          21:14:35 -0600
Received: by presto.remote.ingr.com.remote.ingr.com (uucp2smtp 0.35
          (is@beverly.rhein.de))
Received: by presto.remote.ingr.com (V1.16/Amiga) id AA00ap4; Tue, 7 Feb 95
          20:52:06 CST
Date: Tue, 7 Feb 95 20:52:06 CST
Message-ID: <9502080252.AA00aoz@presto.remote.ingr.com>
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
From: trek_feedback@presto.remote.ingr.com (Jeff W. Hyche)
To: trek_creative@presto.remote.ingr.com
Subject: (fwd) AUTOPOST: Rematch.zip (part 02/02)


Path: b10.b10.ingr.com!news.ingr.com!news.msfc.nasa.gov!cs.utk.edu!willis.cis.uab.edu!gatech!howland.reston.ans.net!news.sprintlink.net!cs.utexas.edu!geraldo.cc.utexas.edu!tivoli.tivoli.com!jfy
From: jfy@tivoli.com (Joseph Young)
Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Subject: AUTOPOST: Rematch.zip (part 02/02)
Followup-To: alt.startrek.creative
Date: 4 Feb 1995 06:29:54 GMT
Organization: Tivoli Systems Inc., Austin, TX
Lines: 382
Distribution: world
Message-ID: <3gv6t2$p4m@tivoli.tivoli.com>
NNTP-Posting-Host: orac.tivoli.com
Summary: Automated posting of fiction from the alt.startrek.creative archive

This is an automated reposting of fiction from the alt.startrek.creative
archives.  
This is archive file: story/tng/PD_Hubbard/Rematch.zip
Any comments, questions, etc. about the archives may be
addressed to jfy@tivoli.com.
=====================================CUT HERE===================================
The Enterprise limped on her way, covering the fleet while a
regrouped enemy battle fleet slowly followed....



End of Part five.


Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!warwick!pipex!sunic!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
~From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
~Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
~Subject: TNG Story: Rematch (Part 6)
~Date: 14 May 1994 10:26:16 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
~Lines: 192
Message-ID: <2r2u38$d72@nyx10.cs.du.edu>

-*- Posted to Usenet by Lawrence Wright, Sysop of Silicon Heaven
-*- +44 (0) 626 834331. 9pm - 5.30am GMT/UTC - 2:255/76@fidonet.org
-*- Story (C) Paul Hubbard - 2:255/76.5@fidonet.org
-*-                          phubb@nowster.demon.co.uk

Rematch:  Part 6


Ten minutes had passed since the Federation fleet had started
it's retreat from Outpost 202.  Of the twenty five ships that had
entered the battle, the Maxwell and the Eagle had been destroyed. 
The Enterprise, Hathaway, Baird and Okuda had suffered damage
from shield problems on the Enterprise to a seriously damaged
keel on the Baird.  The Baird was limited to impulse speed only.
Any more and the keel might part, scattering the Baird over a
large area of space.  Due to this, Picard ordered the Baird to
retire from the battlezone and proceed at best possible speed to
Starbase 212.

Of the Stargazer, there was no sign.

On the Bridge of the Enterprise, repair crews struggled with
multiple system failures.  The panel housing the Science sections
was dead and the helm controls were so damaged that the ship
would answer very sluggishly.  Several RCS thrusters were
inoperative and all of the food replicators were off line.  The
biggest problem was in engineering where several essential
systems had fused completely and the computer core had crashed. 
On a positive note, the remainder of the fleet had suffered minor
damage.  Most of the enemy firepower had been directed at the
Enterprise as she was the greater threat.

Picard looked around his damaged bridge.  The odds had simply
been too great for a fleet of twenty five ships to make a dent
in a enemy intent on destruction.  

"Mr Worf, any news to the whereabouts of the Stargazer?" inquired
Picard.

"Nothing sir, all traces of the Stargazer are negative.  There
is a possibility that she is behind that cloud of hydrogen we
left behind."

"Thank you Mr Worf".  

Picard hoped his old ship was still in one piece.  Even more
worrying, he hoped that Wesley Crusher was in one piece as well. 
Beverley would never forgive him if Wesley was dead.  It had
taken several years for her to get over the death of Jack
Crusher.  If Wesley was dead, then it would be enough to send her
over the edge.

Riker walked up.  "Sir, we have partial helm control restored. 
However, engineering is still down and we only have forty percent
shield capability."

"Understood number one, however, I am not backing off now.  Its
up to us to hold the fort until re-enforcements arrive.  Mr Data,
how far behind us is the enemy?"

"The main body of the enemy fleet is twenty two billion
kilometres behind us and following.  I cannot ascertain the rate
of closure because of sensor damage and the hydrogen cloud which
is shielding up from the opposition."

Worf cut in.  "Sir, I have a subspace communication coming in. 
It is originating from dead astern.  It appears to be from the
Stargazer!!!"

"On screen" ordered Picard.


The Stargazer had not been so lucky.  One of her warp pods had
been blown away and a large chunk like a bitten doughnut was
missing on her port side.  More worrying was the damage caused
by a premature torpedo detonation.  Engineering was a mess and
several sections were open to space.  The warp core was
threatening to collapse at any moment.

On the bridge, Capt Hollander sat on his chair, blood streaming
from a head wound.  His left arm had been severed at the elbow
by falling debris and he had a large stomach wound.

"Stargazer calling Enterprise, Stargazer calling Enterprise..."

There was no response.
Hollander coughed painfully then mustered up strength and leaned
over the microphone input.

"To any ships who can hear this transmission.  This is the USS
Stargazer, repeat, USS Stargazer,".  He paused as a pain racked
his body.  He was nearly dead and Hollander knew it.
"We are dead in space.  All propulsion systems are down.  There
are no defence systems operative and my crew are either dead or
dying.  According to sensor readings, we are drifting into the
path of the enemy fleet and we don't stand a chance.  My last
mission as Captain of the Stargazer is to slow then down.  Ill
give them a run for their money.  Stargazer out."

Hollander shut the communication channel.  At that moment, a
emergency panel crashed open and Wes Crusher climbed out onto the
bridge.  He scanned around, then spotted the captain.

"Sir, let me help you off the bridge, your badly wounded"

"Nothing is going to save me now Mr Crusher.  You had better get
yourself off the ship, ....while there is still time....."

"Sir, I'm not going without you."

"You will young man.  That's a order.  Before you go, there is
something you can do for me.  Help me over to that computer
monitor."

It took several seconds for Wesley to drag Hollander over to the
computer screen.  All the controls were dead but the voice inputs
were still working.  On the screen, the starfleet logo was
displayed with the words 'This station under computer control'
underneath.

Hollander gasped for breath.  "Computer.  This is captain J.T
Hollander, commanding officer of the USS Stargazer.  Computer,
destruct sequence one, code one, one A"

The computer digested the information then acknowledged.  Wes
Crusher considered the state of the ship, the damage to her
systems.  He knew that most of the crew were dead.  This seemed
the only way out.

"Computer, this is Fifth officer Wesley Crusher.  Computer,
destruct sequence two, code two, one A, two B"

Several seconds passed, then the screen changed to a clock with
a one minute countdown displayed.  Hollander turned to Wesley.

"You've done you duty Mr Crusher.  I suggest you find a escape
pod and get the hell out of here....".  He coughed painfully.

Wes thumbed the comm panel.  "Attention all hands, attention all
hands, this is fifth officer Wesley Crusher.  All hands abandon
ship, I repeat, ALL HANDS ABANDON SHIP."

Wes turned and looked at the captain.  He felt pity for him.  His
first command and he was condemned to die because of it.  
Holllander looked towards Wesley.

"Mr Crusher, dismissed.  Get your ass off this ship.  If anything
happens to you, then your mother would never forgive
me.........GO ON......GET OUT ......"

"Goodbye Sir, and god bless" and with that, Wesley disappeared
the same way he entered.

Now Hollander was alone on the bridge.  According to the sensor
readings, within five minutes, the Stargazer would drift into the
outskirts of the enemy fleet.  He had to light the candle one
minute before that.


On board the Enterprise, the full message from the Stargazer was
playing.  The look of horror was all too evident on Picards face.

Riker cut in.  "how does he expect to inflict damage on a enemy
fleet when his own ship is severely damaged???"

"That is unknown number one.  Mr Data, concentrate sensor
readings on the area where the Stargazer message originated
from."



On the Stargazer the clock reached the two minute mark. 
Hollander cleared his throat and resumed the countdown.

"Destruct sequence completed and activated" announced the
computer, "awaiting final code for one minute countdown....."

"Computer, ZERO, ZERO, ZERO, DESTRUCT, ONE"

"Destruct sequence activated, fifty nine seconds to self
destruct...fifty five seconds to self destruct........"

The pain finally became unbearable for Hollander.  He knew his
time was up and he hoped Crusher made it.

"Got you you bastards, got you fair and square........"

And with that he died at his post.



End of part six.

Path: newserv.ksu.ksu.edu!moe.ksu.ksu.edu!vixen.cso.uiuc.edu!howland.reston.ans.net!agate!doc.ic.ac.uk!uknet!EU.net!uunet!mnemosyne.cs.du.edu!nyx10.cs.du.edu!not-for-mail
~From: lwright@nyx10.cs.du.edu (Lawrence Wright)
~Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
~Subject: TNG Story: Rematch (Part 7)
~Date: 14 May 1994 10:27:06 -0600
Organization: Nyx, Public Access Unix @ U. of Denver Math/CS dept.
~Lines: 149
Message-ID: <2r2u4q$d9m@nyx10.cs.du.edu>

-*- Posted to Usenet by Lawrence Wright, Sysop of Silicon Heaven
-*- +44 (0) 626 834331. 9pm - 5.30am GMT/UTC - 2:255/76@fidonet.org
-*- Story (C) Paul Hubbard - 2:255/76.5@fidonet.org
-*-                          phubb@nowster.demon.co.uk

REMATCH:  Part 7

The self destruct timer on the Stargazer counted down the
seconds.  At zero, the magnetic injectors at each end of the warp
core opened and flooded the reaction chamber with deuterium and
it's opposite counterpart.  At the same time, the computer
dropped the fields that held the antimatter within the magnetic
bottle.  Within the blink of a eye, the whole engineering deck
of the Stargazer and the surrounding ship disappeared in a
almighty flash like a miniature supernova going off.

Wesley managed to find a working escape pod with several minutes
to spare.  The escape pod cleared the blast radius of the
antimatter explosion but, unfortunately for Wesley, the blast
exploded the hydrogen smokescreen that had been dumped by the
Enterprise.  The resulting explosion flipped the pod end over
end, knocking Wesley unconscious.

As the explosion reached maximum magnitude, the enemy fleet came
into contact with the expanding antimatter explosion.  The front
three quarters of the enemy fleet was completely engulfed in the
flames and were annihilated in the blast.  No shielding, however
good, could save a ship from a explosion hotter than the core of
a sun.  The remainder of the enemy fleet, severely damaged,
turned, as best as they could, and withdrew towards outpost 202.
A large shell of superheated gas raced out in all directions.

On the Enterprise, Picard was issuing orders when the explosion
occurred.  The whole bridge crew were momentarily stunned by the
force of the explosion.  Then Data cut in.

"Sir, I have a visual detection on a shock front, rapidly heading
this way.  Estimating fifteen seconds to impact."

"All power to shields, hang on everyone......" yelled Picard.

The shock front slammed into the fleet of ships.  The Enterprise
was swirled around like a piece of cloth in the wind.  Two ships
in the fleet were not so lucky as the wave tossed them end over
end into each other.


Finally, after several minutes, Picard found his voice.

"Mr Data, explain????"

"Going by sensor readings, the Stargazer has detonated her
antimatter reserves, destroying herself and, it appears, most of
the enemy fleet.  I am afraid the Stargazer is no more..."

"The ultimate sacrifice" exclaimed Riker.

"Yes number one, by a brave man.  Mr Worf, signal all ships to
proceed forwards as soon as it is safe to do so a clean up any
enemy resistance."

"Yes Sir, contacting all ships now."

"Mr Data, start a search pattern for escape pods, all working
scanners on maximum.  I want to pick up any survivors from the
Stargazer."

"Search pattern plotted sir."

"Engage..."


Several hours later, the few pitiful escape pods were rounded up
by tractor beam and guided to the Enterprise's shuttle bays.  Of
the few escape pods recovered, most came from the Stargazer.
Only a few were recognisable as being from the USS Glover.  They
were opened within a protective force field.  Not to keep the
alien parasites in but to protect the shuttlebay crews.  Picard
and Riker came down to shuttlebay one cargo deck to observe the
recovery operations and to personally see the survivors.

Riker started. "I have a full report from the away teams
inspecting the colony sir."

"And what was their report number one?"

"According to the away teams, most of the population were rounded
up and kept in detention cells as future 'Hosts' for the
parasites.  The few infected guards that were at the colony were
quickly taken care of.  Also, Dr Crusher has found a way to
remove the parasites rom the host using the transporter to
separate both entities.  The separated parasites have been
transported to a holding laboratory for future study."

"Hmmmmmm.  I think I would feel much better destroying the
parasites for good.  The only problem is that goes against
everything I hold dear. prime directive as well."

"Also sir, the Clark discovered what was left of the Naylor.  It
appears the research ship was stripped for parts, presumably to
built the plasma cannon and the remains self destructed.
Starfleet command has discovered where the orders for the Naylor
originated from.  It appears that someone hacked into the
communication network and planted the orders.  Apparently, the
unauthorised subspace beam originated from beyond this sector."

A cry rose up from the cargo bay floor.  A escape pod, badly
burnt and scarred from the antimatter explosion had been opened.
Picard and Riker rushed up just as the survivor was being
removed.  The recovery teams surrounding the pod parted,
revealing Wesley Crusher, shaken around with a few bruises but
generally all right.

"Picard to Dr Crusher"

"Crusher here captain"

"Doctor, I suggest you come down to the engineering deck.  Your
son is here requiring medical attention."

"I'm on my way.  Crusher out."

Picard looked at Wes then turned to face Riker.

"You know number one, I have a feeling that everything is going
to turn out alright after all...."

And with that they turned and walked out of the shuttlebay.



Epilog.

Out past outpost 202, a lone escape pod tumbled end over end,
severly scarred but still under power.  Inside was co-ordinator
Farrell.

In all respects, Farrell looked normal....., except for the blue
gill.  The creature inside mulled over the previous events.  He
had failed in his quest.  The members of the hive would not take
this lightly.  Still, they had allowed for errors.  There would
always be another day to fight.

The pod drifted out of the star system into deep space.




The End...........Or is it......


