_Strategem--A Star Trek:  The Next Generation Story_
by E. David Jansing      (c) Copyright 1993 All Rights Reserved
			 ST:TNG character (tm) of Paramount


Chapter 1

"Captain's Log, Stardate 45322.2

We have been summoned to the outer rim of our galaxy to investigate a
strange transmission, intercepted by the USS Georgia, Captain Russo
commanding.  Starfleet has been slow in providing information that would
allow us to prepare for the mission.  Russo has an excellent service record,
and shows no sign of incompentence.  I am forced, then, to speculate as to
why Starfleet has sent us to assist the Georgia in her investigation."

Picard switched off the recording monitor and carefully leaned back in his
ready room chair.  He slowly brought the tea cup up to his lips, savoring
the smell.  "Why had Starfleet sent us out here to assist?"  Picard's deep,
questioning thought had distracted him so much, he didn't hear the door
chime for quite a while.

"Come."

The door slid open and Lt. Commander Data and Commander Riker entered.
Riker wore a disconcerted face, unlike Data whose expressions, when he had
them, were always contrived and cliched.

"We will be rendezvousing with the Georgia in 4 hours and 15 minutes, sir."
Data stated with his usual precision.

"Might I enquire, sir, as to what our mission will be once we arrive?  So
that I can prepare the crew?"  Riker never needed to question Picard's
judgement on any mission, nor would he start now.  He was, however, still
left to feel uncentered regarding a certain lack of information as to why
they had suddenly changed course six hours previously.

"You know as much as I do, Number One.  Starfleet seems to feel that a
certain amount of radio silence regarding this mission is necessary."

"Yes, sir.  Understood."

Picard looked at Data intensely.  "Have you done a preliminary study, Data?"

"Yes, sir."

"Report then Commander."

"Yes, sir.  The USS Georgia is a science vessel, Captain Stephen A. Russo,
commanding.  They are on a six month mission to study U.P.A.s on the outer
rim of the galaxy.  They . . . "

Riker interrupted.  "UPAs, Data?"

"Unusual Physical Anomalies, sir.  UPAs can be Black Holes, Cosmic Strings,
Quick-developing Nebulas . . ."

Picard quicked said, "Thank you Mr. Data.  Is there anything else you can
tell us about the Georgia or her crew before we arrive?"

Data cocked his head slightly to the right, an expression that we frequently
did when attempting to make a surmise or discovery.  "They have not
encountered any resistance while on their mission.  It was thought that the
Romulans might object to such a study so close to the Neutral Zone.  There
have been no detection of any other vessels in the quadrant, other than the
Georgia.  There have been no distress calls from outposts in that sector."

"Speculation, Mr. Data?"  Picard waited anxiously, hoping to get just a
glimpse of what might await them.

"I have insuffient data in which to make a theory, sir."

"Thank you, Mr. Data.  Commander, what is the Georgia's present location?"

Riker said stiffly, "Orbiting the Eta Theta outpost, bordering the Neutral
Zone, sir."

Picard sighed deeply.  He hated the Neutral Zone.  He disliked the idea of
having to park off of the edge of it to investigate something.  He
especially disliked the idea that Russo had intercepted some Romulan
transmission and was in dire need of assistance that could produce
hostilities.  He did not like it at all.

"That will be all, thank you."

Chapter 2

The USS Georgia glided quietly across the planet.  It gracefully cruised
around the planet, almost in a artistic fashion.  Looking from the bridge,
Captain Stephen Russo rubbed his chin and squinted into space.  "It just did
not make any sense," he pondered to himself.  Out loud, he turned to the
science officer and requested, "The transmission again, please."

"Yes, sir."

Russo was young for a starship captain.  Around 30, his dark eyes indicated
that age would not play a factor in him commanding his ship with peak
efficency.  He was tall, dark headed.  His frame was perfect for his body.
He was one of those captains that always turned the young Ensigns heads,
whispering among themselves wondering who might get the pleasure of dining
with the captain.

The ship's computer chirped slightly and the transmission played itself with
no fanfare.

"To all those who gaze at the stars, to the ship who bore, we send
greetings, we send cold revenge.  As those who bore unto Genesis, so we knee
before the Captain now.  For once after reverence, comes the steely hand of
death, to take us into the dark door.  May the Captain find that door and
greet it with the same courage that those who knelt before him had."

There was a cold silence on the bridge.  Russo jumped up and cursed.  "What
the hell does it mean?"

"It has been repeated on the same frequency over and over since we
discovered it."  The science officer stated, playing havok with the controls
on the science station.

"Can you pin point the exact location of the transmission, Mr. Kamorov?"

Mr. Kamorov frowned and turned to his captain.  "No, sir.  Ship sensors
detect that is orginating somewhere from the Eta Theta outpost, sir.  But is
coming from under the planet, perhaps in a subterranean cavern.  It may not
be possible to find the exact location to due to makeup of the rock of the
planet.  It provides an effective shield against the ship's sensors."

"Captain!  A ship is entering the sector."

Russo turned to Ops.  "Can you identify the ship, Mr. Turner?"

Turner played with the controls on his station quickly.  Then he stopped and
stared.  "It's the Enterprise, sir."

"Enterprise?!?"  Russo began to rub his chin again, a habit that escaped
him, but not the members of his crew.  Many times, it became a kind of work
joke, similar to the "Picard manevuer" that described the habital way that
Picard would pull down on his uniform top when he rose from his seat.

"I knew that Starfleet was sending someone, but I didn't know it would be
the flagship."  Russo paused.  "Hailing frequencies."

Mr. Tzu quietly worked at the security station. She had always dreamed, as
many in the fleet do, of working on the Enterprise, but she was never
assigned there.  Her hopes were up now, she was getting to do the next best
thing, work with the Enterprise and her infamous crew.  "Channel open, sir."

Russo took a deep breath and then stated, "This is the USS Georgia, Captain
Stephen Russo, commanding."

The view screen flickered a bit and flashed to life.  The picture changed
from the surface of Eta Theta to a bridge of a Galaxy-class starship.  This
bridge was beautiful and you could almost hear everyone aboard the Georgia's
bridge gasp when it first appeared.  Her crew looked powerful, like all the
stories ever told about the previous crews of the Enterprise.  There was
even a Klingon at the security station.  No other Klingons had ever served
aboard a starship as a member of Starfleet, so the security officer was a
bit a celebrity.  A young woman, Bijoren, sat at the Conn and a strange
pale-skinned man sat at Ops.  And in the captains seat was a legend in his
own time.  Jean-Luc Picard.  The only man known to have been a Borg and
survived.  He and his crew were instrumental in saving Earth.  Picard stood
and pulled at his uniform top.

"Greetings, Captain Russo.  I am Jean-Luc Picard, captain of the
Enterprise."

"It is a pleasure to met you, Captain.  I have so been looking forward to
it."

Picard frowned and then smiled.  "Why is that, Captain Russo?"

"I have been very interested in the Borg situation.  I have done much
research in the area.  History, you know.  And your a piece of it."

Picard frowned and kept it in place.  "Thank you for the complement, but I
hope that it is not the Borg that brings us here today."

Russo blushed momentarily and then stood up straight again.  "I did not mean
to make implications, Captain.  No.  The Borg are not here, nor do we have
any reason to believe that they are behind the strange transmission that is
eminating from the planet."

Picard turned to Data, then to Worf.  "Are you detecting any transmissions
from the planet?"

Worf grumbled, then looked up from his station.  "Yes, sir.  However, I am
unable to locate the origin of the source."

Picard then turned to Data.  "On screen."

"The transmission is an audio-only message.  It is repeated every 10.6
seconds after completion."

"Very well, the transmission Mr. Data."

"To all those who gaze at the stars, to the ship who bore, we send
greetings, we send cold revenge.  As those who bore unto Genesis, so we knee
before the Captain now.  For once after reverence, comes the steely hand of
death, to take us into the dark door.  May the Captain find that door and
greet it with the same courage that those who knelt before him had."

Picard looked at Russo.  "Do you know what it means?"

Russo laughed out loud.  "So the legend is as human as we are!"  he mused
quietly to himself.  Russo then stated humorously, "No, sir.  We do not have
the slightly notion as to what it means.  Perhaps together we can unsolve
this mystery!"

Picard smiled.  A mystery!  Just the kind he enjoyed.  "Perhaps so,
Captain."

Both ships were now in orbit around the planet.  And then, suddenly...

"Warning!  Incoming missile.  Evasive action necessary."  The Enterprise's
computer automatically sounded the Red Alert klaxon.

Chapter 3

Picard spun around on his heels and shouted at Worf.  "Shields!  Mr. Worf,
shields!"

"Attempting to raise, sir!"

"Ensign Rho, emergency manevuer Epilson, quickly!"  Picard looked around at
his crew, as they scrambled around to their stations.

With a flash of light, the photon torpedo raced towards the Enterprise.  As
the torpedo grew in intensity, the ship moaned and shook as it attempted to
escape the power of the device.  It did not.

The occupants of the Enterprise were thrown about as the torpedo hit one of
the Warp Engine Nacelles.  "Warning!  Direct hit on the port Warp Field
Nacelle. Initiating evacuation sequence in all Engineering sections."  The
computer calmly began the proper emergency sequence as the crew of the
Enterprise lay stunned at the attack.

"Status . . . !"  Picard sputtered as he lay on the floor of the bridge.
The emergency lights had activated and computer stations began to chirp and
chatter with news of the damage to the ship.

Seemingly uneffected, Data quietly answered.  "We have auxiliary power.  Our
shields are only at 34% efficency.  The computer has automatically begun
emergency procedures.  All engines are non-functioning."

Riker was red with fury.  "Worf!  Where did that torpedo come from?  The
Georgia?"

Worf looked up from his station, "No sir.  It came from the outpost."

"What?  A photon torpedo?  From the surface?"

"Yes, sir!"

Picard sat in his chair.  "Can you locate the source, Mr. Worf?  Or the
party responsible?"

"Sensors are not fully operational, sir.  Wait!  Incoming!"

Picard stood in anger, then thought better of himself and sat back down.
"Phasers!  Take out the device!"

"Phasers are not responding, sir!"

Riker shouted at Data.  "Sound collosion, Mr. Data!"

The torpedo raced past the Georgia and stuck the saucer section of the
Enterprise.  The shields barely held the integrity of the hull as the ship
rocked under the power of the device.

Riker crawled to Science Station 2.  "Where the hell is the Georgia?!?"



"What the hell was that!?!"  Russo screamed.  The crew of the Georgia stood
silently, their mouths gaping.  "Shields!  Now!"

"Sir!"  Tzu stood and trembled slightly.  "The controls are not responding!"

"What do you mean, Mr. Tzu?  Not responding?"

"Someone has overridden the security access code.  From the planet!  The
transmission has stopped and a different signal is sending instructions to
our computer!"

Russo screwed up his face.  He thought quickly, then he acted quickly.
"Bridge to Engineering!  Shut down the access to the phasers to manual
control only!  Immediately!  Mr. Kamorov, what is the status of the
Enterprise?"

Mr. Kamorov, staring intently at the control panel, turned back to the
captain.  "She is badly damaged, sir.  She has sustained two hits, one to
the port Warp Nacelle, one to her saucer section, decks 7-10.  She has no
means of propulsion.  If she drifts any more, she will begin to spiral down
towards the planet!"

"Mr. Tzu, activate the forward tractor beam.  Stabilize the Enterprise!"

Mr. Tzu worked the controls furiously on her station.  Sweat began to pour
from her brow as she attempted to rescue the Enterprise.  "I think I have
her, sir!"

"Excellent!  Now get close enough to extend the shields over her hull."

"I have no control over the helm, sir!"  Turner spouted.

"Damn!  Computer, recognize Russo, Stephen A., Captain, Alpha Two
clearance!"

"Recognized Russo, Alpha Two clearance."  The computer on the Georgia had a
different tone, deeper than the Enterprise's computer.

Russo rubbed his chin furiously.  "Isolate all command functions, accepting
commands from Bridge and Engineering stations only."

"Do you wish to lock-out command functions being received remotely from the
Eta Theta outpost?"

"Yes!  And computer, who authorized those commands?"

"Russo, Stephen A., Captain, Alpha Two clearance."

Red started to flow across Russo's face as his fury increased.  This had
been a setup from the start.  Someone lured his ship so as to disable it.
But why fire on only the Enterprise?  It made no sense to him.

"Computer, authorize new security access code,
one-two-five-tango-two-two-two-four, acknowledge."

The computer chirped and beeped slightly.  "New security code entered.  Do
you wish to assign Priority One clearance?"

"Yes!  Now helm, extend our shields around the Enterprise!"

Mr. Kamorov swung around from the science station.  "It's too late, here
comes another!"

Russo jumped from his seat and ran over Mr. Tzu.  Mr. Tzu looked gray, her
eyes fixed intently on the panel.  Russo put his hand on her shoulder.  "Arm
phasers and destroy the torpedo."

Tzu shook herself out of the daze which had mesorized her and began working
the ship's weapons.  "Phasers armed.  Locked onto target.

Russo shouted, "Fire!  Now!"

The Georgia sent a blast of phaser energy driving towards the torpedo.  All
at once the photon went up into a small ball of fire.  The Georgia shook
from the blast and the Enterprise moaned as the repercussion caused even
more damage to the already wounded ship.

"Mr. Kamorov, what is her status now?"


The bridge of the Enterprise lay dark.  The only sound that could be heard
was the ship's computer, automatically initiating back-up life support.

"Emergency!  Decompression danger on decks 7, 8, 9, and 10 due to weaken
hull.  Now initiating emergency evacuation procedures."

Picard groaned as he tried to lift himself up.  "Too dizzy to think," he
moaned softly to himself.  He could hear the other's breathing around him,
but could not see anything or anyone.  Even the view screen had been
disabled.  "Mr. Data."  It came out weakly.  He tried to clear his throat
and said a little louder, "Mr. Data."

"Yes, sir.  Are you all right, sir?"

"I'm not sure Data.  What is our status?"

"We have only battery power.  I cannot seem to activate the emergency
lighting on the bridge.  Life-support for the rest of the ship was at a
minimum just before we were shook.  I do not know our position, nor the
status of the rest of the ship at this time."

Slowly, bridge stations began to raise back to life.  The bridge lighting,
however, was still not functioning.  Nor was it clear that anyone else on
the bridge was conscious or even alive.

Mr. Data punched a few buttons and then spoke.  "Computer, resume emergency
lights on bridge."

"The emergency lights on the bridge are currently activated."

Picard sat up slowly.  "The physical circuits must be damaged."

"Perhaps the force of the last blast damaged the illumination units
themselves."

"Perhaps.  Computer, report status USS Enterprise."

"Emergency evacuation for all Engineering decks, as well as decks 7, 8, 9,
and 10 have been initiated.  Life support is being to fail.  Recommend
ship-to-shore evacuation."

Outside, there was the sound of continual firing, although not close enough
to affect the ship.

Suddenly, the normal lighting for the bridge flickered to life.  And what it
revealed was a sight.  Black scoring across the science stations as the
shock wave from the blasts tore up the circuitry from within.  All of the
bridge crew lie on the floor, all of them conscious, if not a bit shaken
from the last attack.

Mr. Data was the first to speak.  "Captain, the situation in Engineering is
critical.  I have managed to stabilize life-support for the moment, but the
Warp Engines are losing their integrity.  There is the possibility of a
Containment Field Breech."

Picard spoke, "How long, Mr. Data?"

"Not less than 30 minutes, sir.  I recommend that we commence emergency
evacuation procedures, we have no time to attempt to stabilize the ship
without risking the crew aboard."

Picard closed his eyes.  He wanted to take just a minute, just a minute to
attempt to piece together what had brought them to this.  He wanted to hear
the transmission again; he was sure it was connected.  He needed to talk to
Russo, but knew that what they would be talking about was not why the
Enterprise was attacked.  But he knew that he had to act fast, to insure the
safety of those aboard his vessel.  He opened his eyes and exclaimed, "Data,
contact the Georgia advise them of our status.  Ask Captain Russo if he will
allow a command team from the Enterprise to board the Georgia and work with
his people to assertain the situation and why the Enterprise was attacked.
Also, inform Starfleet of our status and ask for instructions."

Worf twiched suddenly and turned the corner of his mouth slightly, which for
the Klingon was a beaming smile.  "Captain, the Georgia has successfully
destroyed the photon cannon on the surface.  I have the coordinates of the
wreakage.  It lies a considerable distance way from the outpost."

Data turned and added, "The outpost has sent a request for our status and
offers what assistance we may need.  They have also dispatched a patrol team
to investigate the site of the photon cannon."

Picard looked satisfied with the news that for the moment they were not in
any more danger.  He looked about at the disarray on his bridge and frowned
deeply.  He sighed and stated, "Computer, this is Captain Jean-Luc Picard.
Initiate Abandon-Ship protocol."

The computer immediately sounded the Red Alert klaxon as it proclaimed to
the rest of the ship that it should take whatever steps necessary to
quickly, but safely leave the crippled Enterprise.

Picard then turned to the bridge crew and took on the look of a determined
leader.  "Mr. Data, has Captain Russo given us permission to board the
Georgia?"

"Yes, sir.  He says he will make whatever we need available to repair the
ship."

"Excellent.  Lt. Commander Data, Lt. Commander Worf, Lt. Commander LaForge,
if he is able, and Chief O' Brien, if he is able, will transport to the
Georgia and begin determining who and what is responsible for the attack on
my ship."  Picard turned to Ensign Rho.  "Ensign, please inform Dr. Crusher
that the Georgia will receive whatever wounded we have and remain there to
assist in the evacuation of sickbay.  Remain with Dr. Crusher and the
wounded after transport and offer whatever assistance you can."

Rho stiffened and answered Picard, "Yes, sir!"

Picard then turned to the pale, quiet Troi.  He regarding her carefully,
wondering if she was able to feel all the pain from the injured on the ship.
"Are you all right, Counselor?"

Troi shook her head slowly, as if to loosen something caught in her hair.
"Yes, I believe so, sir.  Just caught a little off-guard."

Picard smiled at her, "So have we all, Counselor.  I want you to oversee the
evacuation of the rest of the crew and the passengers to the outpost.  Make
sure that all are accounted for and are given emergency shelter on the
outpost.  Inform the outpost of the situation, Data."

Riker stepped between Troi and Picard and stared his captain in the face.
"And what am I to do, sir?"

Picard looked grimly at his First Officer and placed his hand on Riker's
shoulder.  "You will remain here with me.  As we are stranded on the border
of the Neutral Zone, this would be the perfect opportunity for the Romulans
to approach the Enterprise and attempt to steal what is left of her.  We
will attempt to stabilize the Warp Engines, or die during the operation.
This ship will NOT fall into enemy hands while I am commanding her!"

Riker smiled and winked at Picard.  "Yes, sir!  I will attempt to reach
Engineering and evaluate the situation."

"That's the spirit, Number One."

Chapter 4

In the dark reaches of space, the space that stretched out beyond the Eta
Theta outpost and extended into the Neutral Zone, three ships lay quietly
still.  They watched with great anticipation as the mighty Enterprise was
knocked to its knees with an unexpected blow.  Inside one of the ships stood
a Romulan.  He cringed slightly at the sight of the Enterprise as it was
slowly ripped apart by the torpedoes that raced from the planet's surface.
"What a waste, a terrible waste," he thought to himself as he reflected on
the wonder of the starship.  He had encountered it before, playing a
dangerous game of roulette to see who had the more power and guile.  And
Picard had won.  How worthy an opponent was Picard!

He turned to his Helm and quietly gave instructions, "Inform the others to
remain cloaked and follow us to the edge of the Neutral Zone.  Plot a course
and execute!"

"Yes, sir."  The Helm officer, without even turning around to address the
superior officer, began to execute his instructions with amazing speed and
accuracy.

Commander Tomalok smiled to himself.  "This strategem could prove to be more
useful than I had originally anticipated."

Chapter 5

The site of the photon cannon wreakage lay quiet in the afternoon sun.  The
surrounding area was vacant except a lone man.  He stood gazing and the
smoldering pile of metal and technology.  "Unexpected.  Unexpected, but not
altogether unfortunate," he muttered to himself.  He pulled a small
tricorder unit out from his belt and press a few buttons.  Then he spoke
into it.  It was a cold, bitter voice, one tottering on the edge of
insanity.  The words he spoke were precise, clean and clear as was the
message it relayed.  "I am waiting, Picard.  I am watching, Picard.  I am
killing, Picard.  As Hamlet was push by the ghost of his father, so I am
pushed by the ghost of my past.  Revenge!  It shall be mine!"

He stood and stared at the tricoder, slightly stunned at the power of what
he had proclaimed.  Then he shook himself and pressed some more buttons and
vanished in a haze of crystalline-blue light.

Chapter 6

The bridge of the Enterprise  sat empty.  The bridge stations blinked
sullenly as they tried to perform the task of repairing the ship.  Science
Station I had black scoring across the panel where the power overloaded the
panel's display system.  The turbolift door right of the Tactical opened.
Picard and Riker, dirty and weary, stepped onto the bridge.  Neither had
much to say to the other.  Picard walked over to Ops and started to adjust
the controls.  Riker stood at the Engineering Station, watching the display
intently.  "The Containment Field seems to be stabilizing, sir."

Picard never looked up from the station where he sat.  "It does indeed,
Number One.  In fact, I believe that the damage to the ship was not as bad
as we orginally had anticipated."

Riker squinted and smiled wearily, "Should I call the crew back to the ship,
sir?"

Picard shook his head slowly, "I think not.  We are dealing with an unknown
element.  Namely, the party who is responsible for damaging the ship to
begin with.  Until we have determined that the ship is completely out of
danger, I think it would be a mistake to lower the shields in an effort to
beam the crew back aboard."

"Good thinking, sir," Riker stated softly.

Both worked in silence as they attempted to pick the Enterprise back up from
its damaged state.  Riker occasionally moved from Engineering to Tactical,
adjusting the shields, monitoring the sensors for some sign of the unnamed
assailant.  Will found the lack of sound on the bridge was unnerving as he
performed his duties.  He wondered how the rest of the crew were doing on
their assignments, if Troi was safe.  Riker suddenly jerked as the computer
stated, "Incoming message from USS Georgia on secured channel."

Riker recovered from the surprise and looked mildly irritated, as if the
computer had meant to sneak up on him.  "Computer, on screen."

Picard looked up from the Ops station for the first time, but did not get up
from the chair that sat behind the console.  Riker briskly walked down the
platform towards Picard as Captain Russo and Data appeared on the screen.

Russo spoke first, looking worn from the day's events, "Our sensors indicate
that the Enterprise is almost up to operating specs.  Is there anything more
that needs to be done that we might help?"

Riker grinned and spoke, "No, sir.  It looks as if the Captain and I have it
well in hand."

Russo grinned back, liking Riker more and more as time progressed.  "You two
make an unbeatable team.  Your Mr. Data has some important information he
would like to relay to you."

Data blinked once and said, "Commander, we had determined the precise
location of the photon cannon, as well as cannon type and configuration.
Mr. Worf and a security team from the Georgia beamed down and determined
that the cannon is indeed completely out of commission.  There is no sign of
a camp, nor is there any sign of a base of operations.  There is a
transmitter located approximately 500 yrs. away in a clearing.  It had sent
the message that brought both the Georgia and the Enterprise to this
location, and it was currently sending the message that I relayed to you
earlier."

Picard cleared his throat, "We sent the message and a complete report of our
status to Starfleet."

Data nodded, "A wise choice, sir.  It seems that the cannon is Romulan in
design.  It was adapted for surface use, and the adaptation was done with
Federation parts.  It can be assumed that there could be a cloaked Romulan
Warbird in the sector."

Picard frowned and gritted his teeth.  This was not like the Romulans.
Terrorism to steal Federation property.  It didn't make sense.  "That is the
assumption that Commander Riker and I are also working under.  Therefore,
for the present time, it seems that you and your away team, as well as the
rest of the crew on the surface, will have to stay put.  Commander Riker and
I will inform Starfleet if you will be so kind as to provide us with your
report.  We do not have the sensors totally back on line, so will your team
kindly begin scanning for a cloaked ship in this sector."

"Yes, sir.  I will send that report immediately, Data out."

Data and Russo's faces on the main viewer were replaced by several different
windows that Picard had devised to help he and his first officer monitor the
ship and its defenses.  One window had the image of the planet that they
were orbiting and the stars that surrounded both.  Another window showed
long range scanners and the layout of the sector.  Another window showed the
damage/repair status.  The final window had the tactical layout of the ship.
Picard sighed deeply.  How had it come to this?  He was attacked while his
guard was down.  This had also happened while he was on the Stargazer.  The
thought of losing the Enterprise like he lost his previous ship was
unnerving for him.  But, the ship was intact, almost to operating capacity
and he was still in charge.  But why?  Picard glided across the Ops panel,
activating the ship's computer.  He called up both mysterious transmissions.
He listened carefully to both, noting the wordage and tone.  The voice
seemed familiar.  Picard creased his brow, trying to call up the memory of
the voice.

Riker spoke from Tactical, "It does seem mysterious, sir.  Also somewhat
insane.  Like a controlled maniac."

"I know that voice, Number One.  I just can not place it!"  Picard winced as
if someone pinched him.  Pushing the Ops panel away from him, he stood and
walked to his own seat.

The computer chirped as it always did.  Riker looked up from the console,
"There is an incoming message from Starfleet Command.  Priority One, secure
channel."

"On screen," Picard said, standing slowly.

The viewscreen blanked momentarily, then a image of Admiral Del Rosario
appeared.  "Greetings, Captain.  I trust that you are in a better position
than last we spoke."

Picard smiled, "Yes, Admiral, but Commander Riker and I are still the only
ones aboard the ship.  I decided that there would be too much risk in
lowering the shields to bring the others back."

"Wise decision, Picard.  We have determined that the assailant is one Lt.
Cmdr. Detter.  He is part of Starfleet Intelligence.  He and his brother
were aboard the Stargazer when you commanded her.  We believe that he blames
you for his brother's death and is attempting some sort of revenge."

Understanding spread across Jean-Luc's face as the pieces of the puzzle
began to come together.  He remember both Detter and his brother.  Mike
Detter and his brother Ian were valuable and respected officers under his
command.  Picard deeply regretted the loss of Ian.  "I remember both the
Detter's, Admiral, but I find it hard to believe that Mike Detter is
responsible for the damage to my ship."

"The evidence is there Captain.  He does have access to Romulan military
equipment.  He does have access to security codes, giving him access to the
Georgia's command console.  It is his voice on the transmission.  In order
to weed out the mole, we have specific orders for you and your First
Officer.  Here is what you are to do . . ."

Chapter 7

The time aboard the Georgia was becoming pleasant for both crews.  It seemed
as if the danger had past and that they simply were working on a standard
mission together.  The only crew member that would not allow himself the
luxury of pleasant chatter was Worf.  He sat at his terminal pouring over
the data that he and his team had compiled.  He did not like being away from
the Enterprise and he certainly didn't like being where he could not
properly guard the Captain.

He frequently glanced over at Tzu to see if she had discovered anything in
the detailed scans she was making.  If she was discovering anything, she was
keeping it to herself.  "I wonder if she is anything like Tasha," Work mused
to himself.  He enjoyed working with the Georgia's tactical officer, but
found himself wishing that he was operating Tacital and not hunting down
facts with his research.

Russo was sitting in his chair while Data was rapidly keying in data at one
of the Science Stations.  Russo crooked his head and said, "Your crew
performs with superior skills, Commander."

Data turned only momentarily, to acknowledge that Captain Russo was speaking
to him.  "Thank you, sir.  If I may be frank, your crew is very cooperative
in such a . . . ackward situation.  The "takeover" of your bridge by another
foreign crew must be threatening.  We appreciate all of your assistance."

Russo stared at the android in amazement.  How could a machine be so
courtious?  He envied at the marvels of Data and found himself wishing that
the officer was with his crew.  Then he rebuked himself for not thinking
about how competant his crew was and how well they had responded to the
Enterprise's needs.

Tzu suddenly spoke up.  "Something is happening, sir."  She no longer had
the pleasant, light tone in her voice.  Instead, she looked and sounded
confused.  Everyone on the bridge stopped and turned to the Tactical
officer.

Russo waited a good deal before reponding, hoping Tzu would quickly
volunteer the information.  "Well, what is it Commander?"

"It seems that there is a unauthorized shuttlecraft departing from the
Enterprise!"

Worf lept from the terminal his was stationed to the Tactical station to get
a look at the sensor scans.  Data moved quietly behind him.  Worf growled,
"Life signs?"

Tzu turned to him and said, "Two, humanoid."

Russo told Ops, "On screen!"

The viewscreen turned from the view of the planet to the Enterprise.  From
the main shuttlebay at the rear of the saucer section, a small crusing
shuttle begin to circle away from the ship.  Data could tell that it was the
Valdez.  Worf touched the sensor pads and made a sweep of the Enterprise.
No life signs.  "The Captain and Commander Riker must be aboard the shuttle!
There are no life readings on the Enterprise."

Russo shouted, "Attempt to hail the shuttle, please!"

A few moments went by and then Tzu stated in a moment of disbelief, "There
is no response."

Russo stared blankly at the viewscreen.  Suddenly he turned to Data and
asked, "What is the status of the Enterprise?  Are they being forced to
leave?  Is the Enterprise is risk of being destroyed?"

Data poked at a few buttons on the Science station.  He turned to the
Captain and looked very much confused.  "The ship seems to be working order,
no unusual readings.  The shuttlecraft's systems are also functioning
adequately."

Russo said, "Continue to hail them, Mr. Tzu.  Mr. Data, what is the status
of the Enterprise's defense systems?"

"The shields are raised and operating at full capacity."

Outside, the Valdez cruised silently towards the planet surface.  It had
left the safety of the ship's shields and was quite unprotected.  While it
was clear that the shuttle was heading for the surface, it appeared that it
was not in any hurry to get there.

Unexpectedly, the space around the shuttlecraft shimmered and shooked from a
black to a hazy green to a sharp green that revealed a Romulan Warbird
sitting right next to the defenseless vessel.

Tzu shouted louder than she had intended, "Romulan Warbird bearing 171 Mark
75, 15 kilometers from the Valdez!"

Russo threw himself down into his chair.  "Lock onto the shuttlecraft and
beam it into the cargo bay, then raise our shields, Commander!"

Data turned and said, "We cannot lock onto the shuttle, sir.  The Warbird is
somehow jamming our transporter signal."

Tzu asked quickly, "Captain, our shields?"

"Yes, Commander, raise them!"

Worf checked the sensors and checked them again, "The Romulan vessel has
charged its disruptor.  It is bearing down on the Valdez!"

And with one burst of light, the Romulan Warbird successfully destroyed the
shuttle and disappeared into a shimmer of green and gold as it stretched
beyond the planet below.

Chapter 8

"There he is!" shouted Tomalok with a raging fury.  "Scan the sector and
locate the stolen vessel!"  Tomalok trembled in rage in the thought that the
stolen Warbird seized the opportunity to destroy what appeared to be
Picard's shuttle.  The Romulans would be blamed and he was denied the
opportunity to enjoy destroying some prime Federation equipment himself.

"I want that Warbird and I want the traitor who stole it!"  Tomalok seemed
to be on a rampage, yelling and shouting at everyone on his bridge.

"Commander, I have located the ship!  It is still in orbit around the
outpost.  They are probably trying to assertain whether or not the shuttle
crew is still alive."

Tomalok smiled, "We will take back what is rightfully ours and steal the
flagship of the Federation, all in one manevuer!  Victory!"

The crew shouted loudly and in unison.  "Victory!"

Chapter 9

Silence.  Just plain silence.  That was the only thing heard on the bridge
of the Georgia.  Even the sensors and stations seemed to get quieter after
the destruction of the Valdez.

Suddenly and without warning, there was a loud yell.  Everyone jumped and
Tzu let out a little yelp, as if someone pinched her.  Worf continued the 
yell for a good while before he run out of breath.  Stunned by the death
of Picard and Riker and by Worf's need to participate in a Klingon Death
Ritual, Russo sunk deep into his seat.

Not phased by the turn of events, Data stated, "We must regain control of
the Enterprise."  Russo simply stared at the android.  "Are you dense?!  Your
captain and first officer were just destroyed in a blaze of fire!  And you
are worried about the ship?"

Data cocked his head slightly and reported quietly, "I realize the tragedy
of the situation, Captain Russo.  However, there is a cloaked Romulan
vessel in the area and the Enterprise in unmanned and therefore unprotected.
We must make that our first priority."  Data paused.  "With your permission,
sir, I would like to take the remaining Enterprise crew and take a shuttle
in an attempt to regain control of the Enterprise."

Russo looked at Data in amazement.  "So efficient.  So clear-minded.  I
don't suppose you have emotions to stand in your way do you Commander?"
Apparently Data did feel the necessity to answer that question, which made
Worf curious as Data never missed an opportunity to answer a question.
"Perhaps he is really ready for command," mused Worf.

After a pause, Russo turned to Tzu.  "Mr. Tzu, you will provide sufficient
protection of their shuttle while it's enroute to the Enterprise.  We shall
not have any more shuttles destroyed today."  Data finally spoke, "Thank
you, Captain."  Data turned and addressed the Georgia's computer,
"Mr. LaForge, Mr. Worf, Chief O'Brien report to the main shuttle bay
immediately."

"Captain Russo, will you kindly inform Starfleet on subspace and request
instrutions regarding the command of the Enterprise and what should be
done next regarding the deaths of Captain Picard and Commander Riker?"
Russo simply replied, "Certainly, Commander.  I would assume that since you
are second-in-command that you would naturally take command of the
Enterprise."

"Yes, sir.  That would seem to be natural course of action."

Chapter 10

The Georgia's shuttle glided carefully out of the Main Shuttlebay with Data,
Geordi, Worf, and O' Brien, all looking grim, all feeling tense.  Each one
of them understood the risk that perhaps the Romulan Warbird was waiting
patiently to attempt to capture them or the Enterprise.

According to sensors, no one had yet boarded the Enterprise, it was still
laying quietly, repairing itself the best it could without the interaction
of the crew.  No one spoke.  The only words were confirmations of departure
and that sort of thing.  "We will clear the Georgia's shields in
approximately 20 seconds, Commander," O' Brien quietly reported.

"Excellent.  We will have only 60 seconds in which to reach the Enterprise
and fly through the Electromagnetic Shield.  It is my intention that with
the shuttle's defenses, added with the Georgia's protection, we should
arrive relatively unharmed."  Data turned to Worf, "Have we established a
link-up with the ship's computer yet?"  Worf looked mildly irritated, "No,
sir.  Apparently the Captain and Commander Riker did want the possibly of
alien craft docking in the Enterprise.  They shut out all remote command
functions."

"Data," Geordi paused to think, "we could just use the shuttle's emergency
transporter to beam directly onto the bridge.  That way we could simply
'park' the shuttle off the bow of the Enterprise until we can regain control
of the ship."

Data nodded, "Excellent idea, Mr. LaForge."  Data had certainly taken the
role of command seriously.  He had never called his friend "Mr." before, and
it made Geordi squirm slightly to hear it.

"We are now outside of the Georgia's shields!"  O' Brien stated the status
louder than was necessary, but he was becoming increasing nervous by the
second.  He still had not processed the death of two of his heroes.  He was
angry that no one want to even mention them or what had happened.  Miles
knew this was best, not to get wound up in the emotional stress of the
situation, but it still ate at him.  "Thank you, Mr. O' Brien.  Mr. Worf,
please program the onboard transporter to beam us directly to the Enterprise
bridge," commanded Data.  "Yessir."

So no one said anything.  Just O' Brien with time calls, "45 seconds until
shield impact."  They all held their breath, waiting for the decloaking of
the renegade Warbird.  They all knew that the impact with the shield was
probably going to be somewhat painful, for themselves and the shuttle.

"30 seconds."  Silence . . .

"15 seconds."

"10 seconds."

"5 sec- . . . Ohmigod!  Romulan Warbirds directly ahead!  Two of them!"

Chapter 11

The two Warbirds appeared beside the Enterprise on the opposite side from
the Georgia.  They were relatively new looking, not beaten and battleworn
like the ship that attacked the Valdez.

Distracted by the prescene of two new ships, no one realized that they were
going to impact the Enterprise's shields, until . . .

The shuttle lurched forward, as if it were suddenly flying through a dense
bit of gelatin.  The power fluctuated as the shuttle attempted to draw
energy to pass through the shields.  When it pass all the way beyond the
Enterprise's shields, the shuttle shot like a bullet out of a cannon.  O'
Brien grunted as he manually attempted to keep the shuttle from smashing
into the hull of the Galaxy-class ship, as well as prevent them from
shooting out the other side of the shield.

Yelling through the din, Data commanded, "Set a collision course for the
Romulan vessel!"  "Sir?" O' Brien looked shocked at the new change in
course.  "Now, Mr. O' Brien!"  "Yessir."  The Chief did as he was
instructed.  As soon as the coordinates were laid in and executed, Data
shouted to Worf, "Mr. Worf, energize!"

With the brightness of the anti-matter stream in their eyes, it took a good
10 seconds before they realized that they were on the bridge of the
Enterprise.  It was a sight.  There were scorch marks and damage that they
had not even realized occured.  Worf rushed over to tactical to assess the
weapons capabilities of the crippled craft.  Much to his surprise, the
weapons were fully operational.

Data moved to the captain's chair and gave his first command, "Computer, I,
Lt. Commander Data, assume control of this vessel as of this time and
stardate.  Note it in the log.  Return all command functions to normal
operation.  Red alert!  Mr. LaForge, take Ops, Mr. O' Brien, please handle
the Conn.  Everyone to their stations!"

The Red Alert Klaxon sounded, normally letting the occupants on the ship in
incoming danger and to rush to danger.  But with only the four officers on
board, the sound was simply wasted energy on the other decks of the ship. 
The Enterprise's computer quickly initiated the proper procedures for Red
Alert, automatically, without the interaction of the crew that usually
controlled the ship.

LaForge was the first to report, "The ship seems to be functioning normally,
defenses are fine, communications normal, impulse engines normal.  Warp
drive is off-line and probably not up to operational specs.  The only way to
assurtain correctly would be an inspection in Engineering."

"The weapons are fully operational and on-line.  Shields are at 90 percent
and holding well.  The shuttle from the Georgia has been destroyed by one of
the Warbird's disruptor.  They have their shields raised and their weapons
fully charged!"  Worf's voice got strong with each word, knowing that the
odds against the Romulans were beginning to raise.  Between the Enterprise
and the Georgia, if it came to battle, the Warbirds probably would not
survive.

"Have there been any attempts at communication?"  Data cocked his head
slightly, trying to understand why there were now three Warbirds in the
area, and why there they in the area?

"No sir - wait!  There is a message coming in from the Romulan ship.  They
request a joint conference between the Enterprise, the Georgia, and
themselves."  Data asked, "Please patch them through, Mr. Worf."  Worf again
looked irritated that no action was going to take place.  He had held his
warrior instict to attack in check since the Valdez was annilated, and here
they were, talking instead of defending.  So he sighed, "Yessir."

Chapter 12

Russo's face became more and more red as the seconds ticked away.  His crew
did, in fact, inform him that the Enterprise's small crew arrived safely and
that the ship was now out of immediate danger.  And then, more Romulan
ships.  It was beginning to irritate him.  And now the Romulans wanted a
joint conference?  It was beginning to become more than his fiery temper
could handle!  He said to Mr.  Tzu, a little louder than necessary, "Put it
onscreen!"

The viewscreen blinked and a dual image appeared:  one side, the damaged
Enterprise bridge, the other, the bridge of a Romulan Warbird, with a very
agitated Romulan sitting in the command chair.  Mr.  Data, seated in the
command chair on the Enterprise, said nothing, conceding to the superior
officer.  So Russo took the opportunity to act.  "Romulan, you are in direct
violation of the Neutral Zone Treaty.  You will remain uncloaked and leave
this area immediately!"

Tomalok, looking just as irritated as Russo, barely let Russo finish his
directive before he screamed, "I am Commander Tomalok of the Romulan Warbird
Tritor.  I will have that stolen Warbird and the traitorous Starfleet spy
that stole it!  We will not be blamed for this ridiculous assault!"

Russo said, "Commander, your agenda does not interest me.  Your violation of
the treaty does.  You will leave the area immediately!"  Russo's mind raced
as he began to wonder what it would take to get these Romulans out of
Federation space without precipitating a full-scale attack.  An attack that
he was not sure the Georgia or the Enterprise could survive, noting the
events of the past 24 hours.

Tomalok screamed yet again, "I will not leave without the Warbird and the
traitor!"  Tomalok paused.  "Where is Captain Picard?  I would much rather
deal with him directly."

Data stood at this point.  He knew that Tomalok must have been monitoring
the battle.  He knew that Tomalok much have monitored the repair efforts.
Surely, he must have detected the destruction of the Valdez, the Captain,
and Commander Riker.  But there was no need to offer information to the
Romulan, Data thought.  He spoke, "Commander Tomalok.  The captain is not
currently available.  I must confirm Captain Russo's request.  You must
leave Federation space immediately."

And before anyone could respond, the Warbird in question decloaked itself
directly in front of the Enterprise.  The Georgia, the Triton and its mate,
and the renegade made a prominent triangle around the flagship.  Without
warning or even fanfare, Mark Detter appeared on everyone's viewscreens.
"What do you mean, the captain is not currently available?!?  I killed him!
If he is alive, tell me where!  He must pay!"  Mark had a glazed looked in
his eyes.  He was very much out of control.

Data thought fast.  And then he acted.  "Mr.  Worf, quickly prepare a Class
I probe.  Encode a small low frequency signal in its transmitter.  Within
the phase of the signal, hide a repeating high frequency identification
signal.  Quickly, we have not much time!"  Worf became even more confused
than ever at this turn of events.  With three Romulan Warbirds, a damaged
ship and no warp drive, it did not seem logical to be preparing a Class I
probe to be studying something.  But he didn't argue, though he wanted to
badly.

While Worf was running his fingers rapidly across the Tactical panel, an
argument between Detter, Tomalok, and Russo had broken out.  Tomalok
threated to drag Detter back to Romulus and have him questioned and executed
for his heinous crimes.  Russo countered that Tomalok would do no such
thing, as Detter was going to be prosecuted in a Starfleet court of law for
the "attempted" destruction of the Enterprise.  Russo nearly slipped and let
the cat out of the bag that they had witnessed the death of Picard and Riker
earlier.  Detter could say nothing more than he demanded to know where
Picard really was and that he would destroy them all.  The only one not
talking was Data.  He was simply thinking.  And planning.

"The probe is ready, sir."  Worf sighed.  He really wanted to blow Detter
out of the sky for the death of his commanding officer and his friend.  And
then they would deal with the two out-of-place Warbirds.  But instead,
Data's first real command was to prepare a probe.  Worf sighed again.  Data
turned to his Klingon officer.  "Thank you, Mr.  Worf, prepare a photon
torpedo.  Your target is Mr.  Detter's ship.  You will fire the torpedo and
the probe at the same time.  If we are successful, we will attach the probe
to Mr.  Detter's stolen vessel without him detecting, by hiding it with a
small photon burst.  Just a reminder, you are not targeting him for
destruction.  Is that understood?"  Now Wolf understood.  And he smiled at
Data's cunning.  "Yes sir!  Understood."

Data then turned to the crowded viewscreen, and stated for all to hear,
"Well, Captain Russo, I believe that we are wasting our time talking.  Mr.
Worf, fire!"  A look of horror passed across Russo's face as the photon
torpedo and the unseen probe raced towards Detter.  Tomalok simply clenched
his teeth.  The blast of the photon was heard and Detter's face disappeared
from the collage of faces on the viewscreen.  Geordie immediately began
adjusting the sensors to find the probe's mysterious signal.

Russo jumped up, "Commander Data!  What are you doing?"  The renegade
Warbird cloaked and disappeared.  Tomalok screamed, "He is getting away!"
Data calmly said, "Romulan Commander, you have no claim here.  Please turn
your vessel and leave Federation space uncloaked.  Or you will suffer a
similar fate as Mr.  Detter.  Believe me, I will not be so kind in my
attack."  The combination of the surprise attack and Data's deadpan facial
expressions finally pushed Tomalok to the edge.  He was not willing to risk
war with the Federation just yet.  He could obtain the renegade.  He would
simply have to be more cunning.  So, resigned, Tomalok said, "Very well,
Commander."

Without incident, the two Romulan Warbirds glided quietly towards the
Neutral Zone.  Once at the border, the two ships shimmered away,
disappearing into the dark void of space.

Russo's face was not only red with anger, but also twisted in confusion.  He
just did not understand the android's actions.  He spoke.  "Commander, that
was an unauthorized attack!  Not only did you risk a battle with no less
than three Warbirds, you allowed the suspect to get away!"

Calm as ever, Data simply reported, "Technically, we did not attack Mr.
Detter's vessel.  The photon torpedo detentated a good deal away from the
Warbird."

Russo turned to Mr.  Tzu and asked, "Is that true?"  Tzu had nothing on her
face but perplexity, "Yes, sir.  According to our sensor logs, we detected
that the photon blast occured 10.3 kilometers from the stolen vessel."
Russo again turned to Data, "Why?"

Data got up from his seat and stepped forward three steps towards the
viewscreen.  He had not changed his facial expression from the serious
dead-pan that he gave Tomalok.  He simply said, "We should not be discussing
this.  Mr.  Detter is very clever.  He is probably monitoring our
communications.  I suggest that we contact Starfleet, inform them of our
situation, and simply wait for instructions."

Russo opened his mouth, as if to argue with Data, but then realized that it
would be pointless.  "Very well, Commander.  What do you intended to do with
your wounded on my ship?  Or your people on the planet?"

Data cocked his head, thinking for a moment.  After a momentary pause, he
spoke.  "I do not believe that we are in any immediate danger.  We will
begin the procedures to return all of our personnel back to the Enterprise
and begin the rest of the repairs to her secondary systems."

Russo considered it, thought about arguing again, and thought better of it.
If Commander Data was to command the Enterprise, Russo believed that he
should let Data make the decisions of a commander.  "Very good.  We will
assist in the transport and provide safe cover for you."

Data considered again and said, "I will send Mr.  Worf over with a complete
roster of information.  We will account for everything during the
transport."  Russo nodded in agreement.  He simply said, "Russo out."

Russo turned to Mr.  Kamerov and Mr.  Tzu, contempating for a moment.  "Mr.
Worf should be arriving in a moment with our answers.  Commander Data did
NOT need to send me personnel data.  He must want us to know what he is
planning."  Another pause.  "Go to Yellow Alert.  Mr.  Tzu, I don't want you
to take your eyes off that sensor panel for a minute!  If you detect
anything out of the ordinary at all, discontinue the transport of injured
and personnel to the Enterprise, raise the shields, and then inform me."
Mr.  Tzu simply cried, "Yessir!"



Chapter 13

"Captain's Log, Stardate 45324.9,
Lt. Cmdr. Data in command.

It has been two days since our unfortunate encounter with Commander Detter
and the stolen Romulan Warbird.  All of the crew have been returned to the
Enterprise, and repairs to the ship are nearly complete.  I am worried about
the crew.  Because of the urgency of repairing the ship, watching for
Commander Tomalok, and continually scanning for Mr.  Detter's renegade
vessel, they have not had sufficient time in which to mourn the loss of the
Captain and Commander Riker.  We have had little luck searching for Mr.
Detter.  I had hoped that the probe would prove effective, but at this
point, it has not."

Data systemically turn off the log recording.  He sat alone in the Ready
Room.  He simply did not know what to do.  He was certain that the probe
would work.  But in the rush of the event, Worf and Geordie had lost the
frequency signal.  Could the Warbird's cloaking device have covered it?  Had
Detter gone so far out of range that they simply could not detect the
signal?  Had Detter discovered the probe and destroyed it?  Question after
question raced through his mind.  He contemplated them all and quickly and
efficiently computed the probability of each event.  In the end, he could
only speculate.  In other words, he simply did not have enough information.
And that disturbed Data.  In the past, he would simply take strides to
investigate more deeply into the situation.  But he could not here.  He was
in charge.  He had to sit in the Ready Room to coordinate the workings of
the ship, doing all the things the captain normally did.  He must let the
crew function for themselves.  Otherwise, why would they be needed?  He
realized the importance of let the crew do their job, so Data patiently sat
and waited for the to come to him with their findings.  Then he could
recalculate in order to make his decision.

The comm system chirped and sang out as Data sat musing.  "Commander,
subspace communique coming in from Starfleet, Priority One."  Wolf sounded
pensive, probably hoping that Starfleet would give them the go ahead to
conduct a system-wide search for Detter and his ship.  "Thank you, Mr.
Worf.  I will take it here in the Ready Room."

Data could not yet call the Ready Room his yet.  Unlike the other life forms
aboard the Enterprise, he had no drive for power, greed.  Someone else would
have likely said, "I will take it here in my Ready Room."  But not Data.  He
simply waited for instructions from Starfleet as to what he was authorized
to do.  He gently pressed the button on the computer console and Adrimal Del
Rosario's face appeared on the screen.  She did not greet him, but simply
said, "Switch to encryption code 4 5 3 Alpha 2."  Data nodded and instructed
the computer to do just that.  It took the computer a good half of a minute
before the encryption code was activated.  Data wondered why it took the
computer so long to complete the command.

"Sorry, Adrimal, it seems that the computer on the Enterprise is still
somewhat damaged from the attack.  That is probably the reason why the
encryption took so long to go into effect."

Del Rosario simply smiled.  "No, Commander.  Your computer took so long
because the enryption method is brand new.  It no doubt had to link with
Starfleet's central computer net to access the new algorithm.  We simply
cannot take chances with Mr.  Detter.  He knows entirely too much.  We have
changed every security measure we have to insure the integrity of classified
information."

Data stated, "A wise idea, Adrimal."  Del Rosario countered, "Yes,
Commander, it was."  She paused for just a bit and then looked at the former
Third-in-Command.  "I am sorry about the loss of your Captain and First
Officer."  More of a pause.  "I am placing you in command of the Enterprise
until furthur notice.  You will hold your position until you have met up
with the USS Ripley.  You they arrive, you will be assisted by Captain
Talin, a former intelligence officer, and two other intelligence officers
from Starfleet.  They will assist you in tracking down Detter and assuring
that the other Romulan ships remain in the Neutral Zone and out of harm's
way.  Commander, this next part is very important."

Data looked serious and simply replied, "Yes, Adrimal."

"You must not let Detter fall into the hands of the Romulans.  They will not
only show him no mercy for stealing a Romulan Warbird, they will attempt,
and possibly succeed, in extracting vitality important information that must
not fall into the hands of the Romulans.  Do you understand that Commander?"

"Yessir."

"Very good.  Del Rosario out."

As the screen blanked and showed only the "End of Transmission" page of
subspace communications, complete with the Starfleet/United Federation of
Planets insignias, Data stood up and strode onto the bridge.  He stopped
short of the stations area and addressed the crew.  Everyone was busy about
the task of repairing the ship, with Worf and other security officer busy
trying to locate Detter's ship.  Geordie was not on the bridge, no doubt in
Engineering attempting to clean up the repairs to the Warp Nacelle that was
damaged.  Data spoke somewhat loudly and with definite authority, "I have
just finished talking with Admiral Del Rosario.  As of this moment,
Starfleet has authorized me to take control of this ship and her crew.  She
has given us a new set of orders.  We are to remain here until we rendezvous
with the USS Ripley.  They will assist us in locating and capturing Mr.
Detter.  Mr.  Worf, inform me the moment they come into sensor range."  Mr.
Worf nodded and said, "Yessir!"  Data turned to the Conn station, "Ensign
Rho, please tell me when we have Warp Drive back on line."

Data then turned and addressed the entire crew again, "Until that time, I
think we should find out more information about the USS Ripley."  Data moved
over to the captain's chair and sat.  "Mr.  O' Brien, please call up the
library files on the USS Ripley, display them on the main viewscreen."  O'
Brien had been transferred from the Engineering Section to the bridge crew
in order to replace Data who was no replacing Picard.  Data had not yet
decided on a second-in-command.  He had found no time with all of the
activity of reactivitating the ship.  He thought that his natural choice
would be Mr.  Worf, but he did not want to move him down from Tactical.  He
needed an officer there that he could trust.  He would simply have to take
more consideration of the matter.  O' Brien had pressed a few buttons and a
picture of the USS Ripley flashed across the viewscreen and the computer
chirped as it began a short summary of the ship.

"The USS Ripley, NCC-2294-C, is a Galaxy-class vessel, fourth in a series of
five.  The ship was originally commanded by Captain T'lsor.  At Stardate
34510.5, it was severally damaged in the Battle of Wolf 359 against the
Borg.  The ship was salvaged by Starfleet on Stardate 35101.3 and sent to
Earthstation McKinley for Retrofit.  The next commanding officer, Captain
Saglime, was killed in a transporter accident before he was able to take
command of the vessel.  Instead, Starfleet appointed Captain Talin,
commander of the Ripley.  They are currently on a deep-space exploration and
first contact mission.  The bridge crew is comprised of the following
personnel:  Second-in-command .  .  ."  Data interrupted the computer's
summary, "Computer, stop summary."  Data paused.  The picture of the Ripley
flashed off the screen and the outpost and the Georgia flashed back on.
"Mr.  Worf, hail the Georgia."  Mr.  Worf complied, "Aye sir."

Captain Russo's face jumped onto the screen.  "Yes, Commander?"  Data stood
up from the chair and walked toward the screen.  "Captain Russo, by order of
Starfleet command, I am now in command of this vessel."  Russo smiled and
said, "Yes, Commander.  I have been made aware.  We have new orders, so as
soon as the Ripley arrives, we will be under way."  Data was not considered
about their communications beginning intercepted by either the Romulans or
Detter as he quickly and efficiently devised a new encryption algorithm
especially for the Enterprise and the Georgia.  They had maintained all
communications in this format, so there would be no chance that they would
give up any information.  "Commander," Detter got somewhat quieter than
usual, "I am willing to give you an extra crew member if you feel it is
necessary.  I have some of the finest in the fleet."  Data said, "Thank you,
Captain.  The offer is generous, and is unexpected.  I will need help in the
Tactical department."  Worf stood, arched his back and looked around at the
other crew members.  He did not know what was going on.  Where would he be?
What did the android have in mind for him?  Russo nodded his head and
replied, "Fine.  I will have Lt.  Commander Tzu beamed aboard immediately."
Data remember how efficient Tzu had been when the Enterprise crew had been
aboard the Georgia, and how well she worked with Worf.  This would work out
well.  "Thank you, Captain.  Enterprise out."

Worf cleared his throat and asked Data, "Sir, with all respect, what will
become of me?"  Data turned to Worf and quietly replied, "I will need you as
my Second-in-command Mr.  Worf."

Chapter 14

The USS Ripley glided readily across the void of space, rushing away from
Camp Khitomer to the Eta Theta outpost.  Ripley, a wholly remarkable crew,
was made up almost entirely of non-human crew, unlike the Enterprise whose
crew consisted of mostly humans.  Captain Talin, who himself was half Human,
half Romulan, sat in the Conference Room of the Ripley, gritting his teeth. 
He and his crew had earned the unofficial title of "The Bad Boys of
Starfleet."  But, he was not feeling very bad today.  Instead, he was
feeling trapped.  Talin used to be an Intelligence officer, like Detter. 
But he had left that behind long ago for something he loved much more; the
command of a starship.  Now, Talin and his crew sat around the conference
table with Captain K'lor from the Klingon Intelligence, J'Sing and Morban,
Efrosians from Starfleet Intelligence.  While Talin had dealt with K'lor on
many an occasion, he had never serviced with or made contact with J'Sing or
Morban.  They were a mysterious pair, quiet and reserved.  Around the table
sat Commander Thul, the Ripley's Andorian First Officer.  On the other side
of Thul was Lt. Commander Greg.  Greg was an interested character.  He was
the Ripley's Tactical Officer and Chief of Security.  Greg was Tellarite and
his Tellarite name was unpronouncable by most other life forms, so he simply
chose to be called Greg.  There was Murak, the Vulcan Ops and
Science Officer.  She was as mysterious as the Efrosians, never saying much,
always keeping a reserved opinion until called upon.  Not long before this
mission, Murak conceived a child.  No one knew who the father was, some
speculated that even Murak didn't know.  The child was born a prodigy,
already showing signs of increased telepathic and telekinetic skills. 
Finally, there was Dr. Blanche Steinbromowitz.  She was the most unlikely
member of the crew.  Before being posted to the Ripley, she was Assistant to
the Chief Medical Officer of Starfleet.  Blanche had risen to the rank of
Captain.  There were occasions where she and Talin would butt heads, but
Talin would always win.  She was convinced that she had been transferred to
the Ripley as some part of a curse that she was having to live out the rest
of her days.  The rest of the crew was convinced that they were having to
live out the same curse by having her on the ship.

Talin turned to J'Sing and complained, "But we don't even know where Detter
is at this point!"

J'Sing, the quieter of the two, simply stared at Talin.  It got quieter
again, almost until it was unbearable, and then J'Sing nearly whispered,
"The Enterprise will find him."  Greg turned to J'Sing and grunted, "How can
you be sure?  The method they used was risky at best!"  Morban stated,
a little louder than necessary, "They are the Enterprise, they will find
him."

Talin sighed and complained, "Oh, yes!  The famous, immortal Enterprise and
its crew!  They can do nearly anything!  Defeat the Borg, help the Romulans
to the brink of Civil War!"  There was just enough pause for Morban to open
his mouth, but Talin didn't give him the chance to say anything.  He
shouted, "If they are so good, why did their Captain and First Officer get
killed?"

There was a good deal of silence.  Morban looked as if he wanted to say
something to defend the Enterprise, but chose silence instead.  J'Sing
simply stared at Talin.  K'lor, who until this point had been silent,
finally said, "We simply must wait until we get to the outpost and meet with
Commander Data.  There may be more to the situation than we are aware.  We
must not underestimate the Romulans!  This could be a ploy, a plan to trick
the Federation and the Klingon Empire.  We must work together on this or we
will perish."

Talin waited a moment then spoke, "Talin to Bridge."  A few seconds passed
and a female voice, the voice of Lt. Commander Zori the Betazoid Conn
Officer, came over the comm system.  "Bridge, Lt. Zori here sir."

Talin looked around the table and asked Zori, "Estimated time of arrive to
the outpost, Lt?"  "Two hours, sir."  "Thank you, Lt.  Talin out."  Talin
looked around again and then sighed.  He hated this mission.  He wanted
nothing to do with Intelligence, and he especially wanted nothing to do with
Mark Detter.  He knew that Detter was not all together.  He also knew that
Detter was a brilliant, resourceful man.  Talin was concerned that it would
be impossible for them to track Detter.  He was also concerned about the
role that the Romulans played in the whole gambit.  He finally said, "We
will meet on the bridge in two hours.  We will then assess the situation
with the Enterprise.  I suggest that you all spend the time reviewing the
case history for Mark Detter, as well as the Enterprise."  Talin got up and
walked out of the room.

Chapter 15

The situation was grim.  They had spent four days looking for Detter, with
no success.  The crew of the Enterprise had felt whipped.  Worse yet, 
another starship was only a couple of hours away to assist them.  It was 
almost like admitting defeat, having to get assistance from another crew.
Data stared at the viewscreen from his chair.  He was disappointed that his
first command strategy had failed.  This was, of course, not the first time
he had commanded a vessel.  But here, these were his friends and co-workers.
He wished to earn their respect more than anything.  But, in the end, Detter
had been too cunning for him.

"We have visual contact, sir!"  the Conn officer stated, probably a little
louder than necessary.

"On-screen, Ensign."  Data stood and waited.  The viewscreen blinked from
the star field to a rather striking man who looked Vulcan.

"USS Ripley to USS Enterprise."  Data responded, "This is the Enterprise.
Commander Data commanding."

"Commander!  It is a pleasure to greet you.  I am Captain Talin, commanding
the Ripley.  May I introduce Captain K'Lor of the Klingon Fleet, and J'Sing
and Mordan of Starfleet Intelligence.  They will be assisting us in trying
to find and disarm Mr. Detter."  Data curtly nodded his head and said,
"Gentlemen."

Talin was curt.  "What is your status, Commander?"

Data simply replied, "We have been using standard search patterns in an
attempt to locate Mr. Detter.  We have not been successful.  It is quite
possible that Mr. Detter is no longer in this sector.  We have been
operating under the assumption that he is present in this sector until we
have evidence to the contrary.  I believe . . ."

"Sir!  I believe we have some thing!"  The young ensign standing behind
Data nearly shouted.  "We have a signal that matches the same carrier as
the probe that you sent to mark the Romulan ship."

Data simply turned to the viewscreen and said, "I believe I have evidence
to the contrary.  Shall I report to you when I have confirmed this report?"

Talin grumbled, "No, Commander, I think we should beam aboard the
Enterprise immediately to assist you in this operation."  Everyone on the
team nodded in approval, except J'Sing.  He stood silent.

"I believe that would be inadvisable, Captain."

Talin grimced, "And why is that, Commander?"

Data simply stated, "In our past encounter with Mr. Detter, it was nearly
a fatal mistake to lower the shields.  Leaving the ship defenseless is what
brought the ship to the brink of destruction.  If this carrier is truly
within sensor range, then it is entirely possible that Mr. Detter is within
weapons range as well.  He has proven himself to most resourceful.  It is,
therefore, my opinion that we remain on our respective vessels and continue
to communicate on secured channels."

Talin looked as if he was going to argue with Data, but J'Sing leaned to
the Captain and whispered in his ear for about 30 seconds.  Talin looked as
if he was going to argue with J'Sing, but then thought better of it.  He
simply looked at Data and said, "That is fine.  Ripley out."

The viewscreen went blank, then showing the Ripley against a brillant 
starfield, with the Eta Theta outpost a good deal off in the distance.

Data whirled around to where the young ensign was coordinating the sensors
at Science Station II, with LaForge standing behind the ensign.  LaForge had
a line of sweat forming at the top of his brow.  Data walked from the 
captain's chair to the science station.  "Have you pinpointed his location
yet?"  LaForge turned to him and said, barely audible as if someone might
overhear them, "He is right on top of us."

Chapter 16

If it had been any other officer, they probably would have shouted, "Red 
Alert" immediately.  But Data's thinking was much faster and clearer.  He
simply stated, "Are you certain?"  LaForge turned from the station and
simply said, "Very."  Worf, who had been extremely quiet, turned to Data 
and asked, "Should we go to Red Alert, sir?"

Data shooked his head, "I don't believe so, Lt.  I believe that that would
'tip-our-hand'."  Data said the phrase in that slow, paused, deliberate
way he always does when he uses a metaphor in his speech.  He continued,
"If Mr. Detter is so close, he is undoubtly monitoring our every movement.
He will be alerted that we know he is present if we go to Red Alert.  I
believe we should maintain the element of surprise here."

Pausing only slightly, Data then said, "Mr. Worf, open a channel to the
Ripley."  Worf, rolling his eyes, wishing they would just blow Detter
out of the sky, mumbled, "Aye, sir."  Worf pressed a series of buttons
and lights on his tactical console and the view of the Ripley's bridge
blinked to life on the viewscreen.

"Channel open, sir."

"Captain Talin, please switch to secure channel Alpha-2-Gamma-5 on my
mark . . . Mark . . ."  Data paused again, only for a few seconds before
continuing.  "Can you read me, Captain?"  Talin stated, "Yes, Commander,
have you found something?"  Data nodded with a certain look on his lips
that could be considered a grin, "Yes, I believe we have.  Before I tell
you, I would request that you not make any hasty moves.  I believe that
Mr. Detter has not become aware that we detect him.  We have the element
of surprise to our advantage."  Talin stared at him for several seconds
and then replied, "Alright, Commander.  Where is he?"  Data simply said,
"He is directly above the Enterprise."

There were mumblings and grumbles from the Ripley bridge, several bridge
crew scrambled to their ready stations and science officers poking around
at the sensors, trying to confirm Data's statement.  Talin's eyes looked
as if they were going to bug out of his head, "Are you certain, 
Commander?"  Data echoed Geordie by saying, "Very."

J'Sing, Morban and K'lor began to speak at once, trying to offer suggestions
both Data and Talin.  Talin held up his hands.  "One at a time, one at
a time, please!"  K'lor shouted first, "Let us disable his ship, quickly,
so that we can board it and capture him!"  Morban yelled at him, "That
would be too dangerous!  We would be risking the crew of the Enterprise if
Mr. Detter is so close to the ship."  J'Sing simply stated, "What do you 
suggest, Captain Talin?"

Talin was about ready to respond when a large explosion rocked both ships.
Talin was thrown off his feet and Data used the arm of the chair behind
him to steady himself.  In unison, both ship commanders shouted, "What
was that?!?"

Worf was the first to respond, "Four Romulan Warbirds decloaking off the
port bow!  They are firing upon the renegade!"

Data thought of the ship first.  He turned to Rho and shouted, "Evasive
manuvuer sequence Delta.  Move us away from Detter's ship."

Talin, however, thought of the Romulans.  He turned to Greg and shouted,
"Signal the Romulans to stand-down immediately!"  Greg grunted, "Aye, sir!"
J'Sing and Morban looked at each other and then to K'lor.  The Klingon
was hot with rage.  He turned to Talin and shouted, "Fire on them!  Fire
on them now!"  Talin turned to K'lor with eyes fridged with rage, "I will
fire on them when I see fit!"  K'lor screamed, "We cannot allow them to
destroy Detter!  He must be brought to trial for his transgressions
against the Federation and the Klingon Empire!"  Morban joined the rage,
"What transgressions against the Klingon Empire?  He destroyed two
Federation officers!"  K'lor growled, "He conspired with the Romulans,
did he not."  J'Sing quietly remarked, "And it is those same Romulans who
are trying to destroy him."

Before anyone could say another word, the Romulans fired into what looked
like empty space.  It wasn't until the third impact that they noticed a 
ship decloaking into the void.  Talin shouted, "Haven't they responded to
our hail?"  Greg turned to him and replied, "No, sir."

Aboard the Enterprise, the situation was bleak.  No one want to fire at 
the Romulans and then again, no one wanted to help Detter either.  Data
turned to Worf and said, "Fire several warning shots across lead ship's
bow!"  Worf readily agreed.  Worf carefully fired several shots across
the Romulan lead ship's bow.  The ship dodged carefully and moved to
attack the Enterprise.  One of the Romulan ships moved to intercept and
block the Ripley, while the remaining two went for Detter.

As the fight began to grow in intensity, Talin shouted to his Vulcan
Ops officer, "Murak!  Monitor Detter's position on the Romulan ship at
all times, if his shields ever go down, beam him aboard immediately!"
Murak turned and said, "Yes, sir!"  After some moments at her station,
Murak turned to her captain and replied, "Captain, I am unable to get
a positive lock on Detter."  Talin, familiar with forms of Starfleet
Intelligent subversion, simply sighed.  "Continue to scan to for him.
Let me know if you happen to locate him."  "Aye, sir."

The Enterprise, rocking back and forth under the weight of the Romulan
attack, was struggling.  The Romulan ship was relentless about its
attack, apparently very serious about destroying Detter's ship.
Detter's ship was no match for the other two Warbirds that were
giving the ship a through thrashing.  Since the Warbirds had attacked
while the renegade vessel was cloaked, its shields were not activated.
This proved to be Detter's fatal mistake.  The ship was badly damaged
and was unable to properly defend itself.  With only minimal shields
and no main power, Detter was nearing his end.  As the Enterprise
and Ripley tried, unsuccessfully, to come to Detter's aid, the second
Romulan vessel in the two ship attack team made a swift pass at the
wounded ship.  With one bright blast, Detter's stolen vessel lost its
sheilds and began what looked like a core breech.  Both Ops officers
on the Enterprise and the Ripley shouted that the criminal's ship
was under the process of a warp core failure, and extremely dangerous
thing aboard a Romulan Warbird due to the configuration of the
Romulan warp drive.

Talin shouted to Murak, "Do you have a lock on him?"  She yelled back,
"No, he is simply not registering on any of our scans!"  At that moment,
the Ripley lurched forward and the bridge became dark for just only
a moment.  Greg shouted, "Direct hit!  We have lost main power and our
shields!  We are defenseless!"  At that moment, the bridge burst into
light as the ship carrying Detter exploded into oblivion.  Talin screamed,
"Get our shields up before the wave from the blast damages us furthur!"
And, much to everyone's surprise, the power sprang back to life.  The
ship only rumbled as the wave of energy from the destruction of the
Romulan Warbird passed by the Ripley.  And then, the ship's alarm began
to sound.

Chapter 17

Worf shook his head furiously.  It was much too familiar to him.  Data shouted
at the crew with a certain precision and coldness in his voice, "Damage report!"

Worf touched his security panel furiously, trying to get the computer to tell
him how damaged the ship was.  The computer was simply too busy and too
confused to tell Worf much of anything.  The sensors were off-line, shields
were at minimal levels, warp engines were off-line and the impulse engines were
barely working.  It seemed that the only system that was completely operational,
other than life-support, was the weapons systems.  Worf accurately relayed all
this information to Data.  At the same time, Lt. Tzu, from the Georgia, was
working furiously at Ops, trying to determine what, if anything, was out there
trying to kill them.  Not only were sensors not operational, but the main
viewscreen was now displaying all sorts of computer records and logs from 
previous missions.  Everytime Tzu would try to get the viewer to show what
was out and about in space, she would get playbacks of the mission and medical
logs from when a renegade Borg had been aboard the Enterprise.  She said 
nothing.  She desperately wanted to let everyone around her know that she
was capable too.

After much thought, Data had decided that Tzu would perform better if she took
his place at Ops, rather than Worf's place at Tacital.  Data needed Worf's
experience at Tacital right now.  Worf could still be second-in-command while
still defending the ship and her crew.  Data consulted the rest of the bridge
crew and they agreed.  Tzu was not even disappointed.  She simply wanted
to serve with the best crew in Starfleet.  She finally spoke up, "Sir!  I 
believe I have the main viewer back on-line."  The main viewer was displaying
what looked like the Ripley, the renegade Romulan Warbird and four other
Warbird in various attack positions.  One of the Romulan ships looked like it
was coming back for another attack.  Tzu spoke very quickly, "Commander, I
am not sure if this is a real time display or a re-play of our battle thus
far!  Without sensors, I am uncertain."

Data looked at Worf and asked, "Mr. Worf?  Your analysis?"  Worf grimced and
hesitated only for a brief moment, "If it is truly a playback, firing without
sensors and without sensor lock on the weapons could be dangerous.  We might
hit the Ripley.  If it is real, then we MUST defend ourselves."  Worf then
said a bit softer, "I cannot tell."

Suddenly, without warning, the renegade ship exploded in a brilliant flash of
light.  Everyone was certain this hadn't happened before.  Data turned again
and shouted in that exacting coldness, "Ensign, hard about!  Turn the ship to
protect us from the blast!"  Rho yelled, "Aye sir!"

The Enterprise groaned as it tried to turn-about from the blast.  The ship
did manage to turn-about so that the energy blast from the explosion merely
rocked the ship and did a minimal amount of damage.  The other Romulan ships
immediately turned away and disappeared.

Data turned to the front and raised his head upward, "Data to Engineering."
He got an immediate response.  "LaForge here, sir."  Data got right to the
point, "Geordie, what is our status?"  Data noted that he heard an audible
sigh in his best friend's voice.  Was it because the battle was over or
because the ship was badly damaged?  "Well, Data, it's not good.  The warp
engines are completely off-line.  It will take some time to get them back
on-line.  We do have full impulse now.  The shields have taken a good beating
and will need some repair.  Mostly, the sensor array has been badly damaged.
I can't tell what is reliable information and what is junk that the computer
has decided to throw at us.  The ship's computer is going to need some work,
as well . . ."

LaForge was interrupted by Tzu's shout, "Sir!  We have main sensors back
on-line!"  Data simply asked, "Mr. LaForge?"  Data could see in his mind
the smile that Geordie had on his face, "Yes, sir!  The main sensor is back
on line.  There is some damage, but we can now see again!"

Data simply said with little enthusiasm, "Very satisfactory.  Mr. Tzu, what is
the condition of the Ripley?"  Again, Tzu worked furiously at her station,
looking for whatever information about the Ripley she could dig up.  In
seconds she responded, "She is damaged, but not terribly badly, sir.  She 
seems to have warp power on-line and most systems functional.  Wait."  Tzu
paused and looked.  She shook her head and looked again.  "What is it, Lt.?"
Tzu looked up at Data, "The Ripley's security alarm is sounding.  It looks
like there is an intruder aboard."

Chapter 18

J'Sing and Morban ran with the Lt. Greg down towards Cargo Bay 4.  It was here
that someone had decided to beam aboard the Ripley without consent of the
bridge or of the ship's computer.  K'lor had opted to stay on the bridge with
the rest of the bridge crew in order to assess if there was anything salvagable
from the destruction of the Romulan Warbird.

Greg, due to his small stature, ran many paces ahead of J'Sing and Morban.
There was a point where he ran much furthur ahead of the mysterious Intelligence
officers.  But somehow they knew instinctly where Cargo Bay 4 was.  This
impressed Greg.  Not many people in Starfleet had the priviledge of being 
aboard a Galaxy class vessel.  These two officers must have spent many hours
studying the plans and layout of the ship.  Greg slapped his chest where his
Comm badge was pinned to his uniform, "Greg to Murak!"  Murak responded in her
usual cold Vulcan voice.  Greg simply shouted back at her, "Have the
transporters been disabled?"  Murak acknowledged that they had been and would
not be brought back on-line until Greg had given the word.

Greg had to only wait a moment outside the cargo bay doors for J'Sing and
Morban.  Each man had a phaser in his hand.  J'Sing looked at Morban and then
to Greg.  "Set the phaser at maximum stun.  If it is a Romulan, we don't want
to kill him.  If it is Detter, we want him alive!"  Morban simply nodded and
Greg grunted.  Greg manipulated the latch on the cargo bay doors and they
slowly grinded open.

Laying on the floor, blood and burns covering his body, lay Commander Detter.
Detter looked up and frowned.  He tried to open his mouth, but nothing came
out.  No one moved.  Greg, after some few moments of silence, activated his
Comm badge.  "Captain, we have Commander Detter."  Talin quickly responded,
"Excellent!  Is he alive?"  "Yessir.  He looks like he is in bad condition.
Should I ask Doctor Steinbromowitz to the cargo bay?"  There was only a 
short pause when Talin stated, "Yes, but don't move him to Sickbay until you
are certain he is unarmed and not dangerous."

The communications line closed and the three men started quietly towards the
sickly body of Detter.  While Greg called for the doctor, J'Sing started asking
Detter questions.  "Where did you get the Romulan ship?"  Detter said nothing.
J'Sing shouted even louder, "Where did you get all of the stolen technology
that you have been using?"

As Morban got closer, Detter suddenly rolled over
on his stomach and pointed a foreign looking object at Morban.  Morban was
quick to respond, dodging the attack by falling to the ground and rolling away
from his attacker.  Detter laughed hysterically.  A sharp, thin beam came
flooding from the foreign object, missing Morban and hitting a status panel
near the entrance of the cargo bay.  There was a small explosion as the energy
beam struck against the status panel.  There was a rush of air, the start of
a Klaxon, and then silence.

Chapter 19

Tzu stared at her console.  She simply blinked at it.  Then she yelled,
"Sir!"  Data spun around.  He was at the Engineering station, monitoring the
repairs on the ship.  "Ensign?  It is not necessary to yell on the bridge."
Tzu blushed and then looked intense, "Sir!  I think I have found something."
Tzu's face screwed up, "The sensors have detected two lifeforms outside the
Ripley!  They flew out the aft cargo bay!"  Data's eyebrows raised and he
nearly tripped over the Tactical station extension running over to Tzu.
"Are you certain, Ensign Tzu?"  "Yessir!  The sensors indicate that the 
Ripley cannot see them; they are heavily damaged."  She paused and looked
pale.  Data said, "Beam them to Sickbay, immediately!"  

After a pause, Data turned to the viewscreen and muttered, "Bridge to 
Sickbay."  "Dr. Selar here."  "Yes, Doctor.  We are having two people beamed
directly to sickbay.  They were adrift in space.  Please attend to them
immediately."  Dr. Selar replied, "Of course, sir.  Selar out."  Data then
ordered security to the Sickbay, in case the victims happened to Romulans
from the battle.  Then he turned to Tzu and asked, "Who are they?"  Tzu 
simply shrugged.  "The sensors can't determine.  They are humanoid.  And they
are alive.  We have successfully beamed aboard."

Data looked at the Bridge.  Then he turned to Tzu.  "Inform the Ripley what
has happened and see if they know what might have happened.  I will be in
Sickbay."  Turning to Worf, Data said, "Mr. Worf, you have the Bridge."

Chapter 20

J'Sing and Morban both sat on the edge of their beds.  Dr. Crusher stood
near both of them, looking very angry.  Data entered Sickbay and he noticed
that Crusher was not happy.  Without greeting, Data questioned the Chief
Medical Officer.  "What is the matter, Doctor?"  Crusher would not take her
eyes off of the Efrosians.  "Commander, these men are not who they appear to
be."  Data simply asked, "Who are they?"  Crusher said, "I don't know,
however, I do know that they are not Efrosian.  They are human."

J'Sing and Morban simply sat quietly.  Morban looked like he was smiling,
like it was all some strange practical joke.  Finally, J'Sing turned to Data
and asked, "Where is Detter?"  Data looked confused.  "What do you mean,
sir?  And who are you?  You told us that you were Starfleet Intelligence and
that you were Efrosian.  You are not Efrosian.  Are you Intelligence
Officers?"  J'Sing answered none of Data's questions.  He simply stared at 
the android and asked, "Where is Detter?  Did you beam him aboard as well?"
Data looked even more confused.  "Are you saying that he was blown out into
space with you?"  Morban finally spoke, "Yes, yes!  Didn't you see him?"
Crusher's face fell.  Data looked like he stopped breathing, even though he
really doesn't breathe.  Beverly turned to Morban, whipped out her tricorder
and scanned Morban throughly.  J'Sing simply shook his head.

Finally the Doctor looked up from the tricorder.  All she could say was,
"Will?"  Everyone in Sickbay took a step forward and looked at the two
strangers.  Morban Riker was grinning from ear to ear.  Picard just continued
to shake his head.  Data looked at his captain.  "Captain?  Is that you?"
Picard raised his head and muttered, "Yes, Data.  It's me."  All at once, it
was as if all of the noise that could possibly be in that ward was doubled.
Finally, there was a bellow from the back of the room, near the door.  It was
Worf.  Worf simply shouted, "What is going on in here?"  And suddenly, 
everyone just laughed.  Worf looked more irritated than ever.

Prologue

"Captain's Log,
Stardate 45332.1

After a short stay in Sickbay, healing my lungs from the harsh exposure of
space and some minor reconstructive surgery, I have resumed command of the
Enterprise.

Because of the personal sensor shield that Detter was wearing, it was
impossible to recover the body.  I can only presume that Detter was lost
in the accident.  After a complete search of the Ripley, Detter was not
found.  The Ripley is on its way to Starbase 220 for repairs.  We are now
on are way to Starbase 310 for our own repairs.

At first, I did not agree with Starfleet's plan, hiding Commander Riker and
myself, disguising us so that we could participate in the search, without
necessarily endangering the Enterprise crew (or any other crew for that
matter).  But as the plan was underway, I began to believe that it would
have worked.  And with Mr. Data's ingenuity and the Ripley's persistent 
crew, it probably would have gone as planned and Mr. Detter would be alive
and available for questioning.  However, the Romulans paid an unexpected
visit.

What a tangled web we weave.  How is it that one singular event continues to
haunt me and my crew?  First with Bok and now Detter?  The Battle of Maxia
saw more than the loss of a Ferengi crew and near destruction of the 
Stargazer.  Those series of events affected thousands of lives.  But most
especially mine, Commander Riker's, and the Detters.  Could it be that we
are just creating disposable people?  When the Romulans, the Ripley, and
the Enterprise were poised against each other, each one of the lives that
were in danger could have been disposable.  I must see that that never 
happens again.  What a strategy."


