Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Path: moe.ksu.ksu.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!uwm.edu!spool.mu.edu!news.cs.indiana.edu!noose.ecn.purdue.edu!mentor.cc.purdue.edu!neale
From: neale@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (Neale Davidson)
Subject: STTUQ 1-5/15 repost
Message-ID: <Bu23Ez.JzI@mentor.cc.purdue.edu>
Organization: Purdue University Computing Center
Date: Fri, 4 Sep 1992 13:42:34 GMT
Lines: 613

 
  - STAR TREK      ---------------------------------------------------
  - THE UNFAIR QUO ---------------------------------------------------
 
  Part One through Five of Fifteen
 
  Disclaimer : This is fan-zine material, which means that it's
  neither cannon nor seeking to be. I'm doing this for fun.
 
  This story takes place three weeks AFTER the events chronicled
  in THE RAVEN'S ROAR. It is my first "controversial" story to
  date, so I hope someone, somewhere, might take notice.
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  CHAPTER ONE
 
        The place stank with old liquor and old people drinking
  liquor, yet Riley was as comfortable here as he was anywhere
  else. His hulking form was enough to intimidate most people
  from harassing him, but the large phaser rifle strapped to his
  side did the brunt of the warning for him.
        "Romulan ale," Riley commanded to the bartender in a deep
  voice which sent shivers up other patron's spine.
        The bartender, a tall Tellarite snarled, apparantly put
  off by the newcomer's demand. "Romulan ale's illegal, Captain
  of the ENTERPRISE."
        Riley clinched his fist, keeping his free hand close to
  the phaser rifle. "So am I," he warned with a fierce look in
  his eye.
        Then the two men died laughing. "Jesus, man, how the hell
  have you been?" the bartender cracked, putting the room into a
  small state of confusion.
        "I've been busy," Riley answered, the look of anger
  vanishing from his face. "Fleet's given me a lot of work to do
  lately."
        "I've heard," the Tellarite answered. "The ENTERPRISE and
  her three battles of late have gotten you and your ship quite
  well known Earthside."
        "Really, Tago?" Riley smirked, "Who'd be interested in a
  guy like me?"
        "Well," the Tellarite began with a wide smile, "about
  half the cadets over at the academy ask about you, particularly
  the girls," he added with a wink.
        "Yeah right," Riley smarted back. "You know how much luck
  I've had with women. I've got all the charm of a Denebian Slime
  Devil in heat."
        "And the smell," Tago snapped back. "Sounds like you've
  got yourself a problem, my friend."
        "I'm in love with my First Officer," Riley admitted as
  Tago grabbed a bottle of neon-blue liquid.
        Tago smiled, "I'm sure he's a very nice guy," he said,
  forcing Riley to give a hurt expression. "Just kidding,
  everyone knows about Saavik's and your unusual relationship."
        "Everyone?" Riley asked gaping. "You've got to be kidding
  me? You are, right?" he pleaded.
        "Well, let's just say that you're not the only ENTERPRISE
  crewman to drink here," Tago replied flatly. "I overheard some
  of your ensigns in here a few hours ago. They're visiting their
  friends in the Academy now."
        "Luck them," Riley replied, taking the drink from the
  table. "So what'd they say, that the Captain and the lovely
  First Officer have stayed in the observation deck too long?"
        "Hardly," the bartender smiled, "they make a lot of jokes
  about the two blind rats caught in a maze."
        Riley sighed. "Is it that obvious? I guess it is that
  obvious. I'm in love, Tago. In love with a very beautiful,
  very," he paused again, looking for words to complete his
  thoughts. There were none. "Sometimes I envy Vulcans."
        "Where are you staying, Thomas? Have you found a room
  yet, or did you plan to stay on ENTERPRISE?" the Tellarite
  asked, changing the subject.
        "Um," Riley replied, lost, "I haven't found a room yet. I
  haven't actually looked."
        "I've got a room upstairs, it's not much, but it's yours
  if you want it."
        "Thank you," Riley replied, taking a large sip of his
  Romulan Ale.
 
        "I am impressed, Commander," the Vulcan replied in his
  characteristically cool voice. "Your professionalism aboard the
  ENTERPRISE in the times of crisis you have faced has been
  remarkable."
        "Thank you, sir," Saavik replied honestly. "Though I must
  admit that I had some difficulty during those times. My loss of
  command, then the battles, then Thomas, it was all very
  tiring."
        Spock was dressed, as was usual of late, in his Vulcan
  robes. His face was a bit more worn than Saavik remembered, but
  it had been three years since the two of them spoke. He had
  aged somewhat, but his look had grown stern, and truly
  respectful. "I well understand the difficulties you've faced,
  Commander. I can appreciate your difficulty."
        Saavik looked out of her borrowed apartment, into the San
  Fransisco skyline. "I've tried, very hard, to keep control of
  my emotions, Spock. But I still have them, escpecially towards
  Thomas. It is not logical that I should want to pursue a
  relationship with him, yet that is what I want."
        "Logic alone does not answer all problems, Saavik Kahm,"
  Spock replied. "As Jim would say, 'You must rely on your
  instincts as well.'"
        "My instincts? I do not understand them," Saavik replied
  flatly. "I'm angry with him, and I am drawn to him. I haven't
  felt this way since," she faded off, drawn into memories she
  tried so hard to forget.
        "David Marcus," Spock completed. "I apologize, I did not
  need to state his name, I was completing the thought."
        "It's all right," Saavik replied. "I've shut it out so
  long that I didn't remember how much it hurt me. Maybe that's
  what's been bothering me."
        Spock raised an eyebrow. "Indeed, but it has been my
  experience that the emotion of love is not as simple as what
  you would prefer to believe."
 
        Grissom entered her temporary apartment, a small room in
  San Fransisco's bay towers. It was a dim place, but it was
  going to be home for the next three weeks.
        "Lights," she commanded to the room's computer system.
  Instantly the dark areas of the room brightened, revealing a
  long, tall package in the far corner.
        She went to it, the candy-striped red-bowed package had a
  simple note to it. It read "From an admirer" in flawless
  calligraphy.
        She opened it eagerly, revealing three red roses inside.
  "Gahrut," she laughed as she sniffed the intoxicating scent.
  Her best friend was trying to cheer her up already. God knows
  that she would rather be on the ENTERPRISE when the ship needed
  her most.
        The door chime beeped quiety. Grissom loosened her hair a
  bit as she strolled to the door. Gahrut and Campbell were
  waiting on the other side. Campbell was carrying a dozen roses.
        "We wanted to welcome you Earthside," Campbell explained.
  "It was Gahrut's idea."
        "Sorry I couldn't carry the roses," Gahrut explained.
  "I've got a little trouble in that department. Who sent those?"
        "You mean you didn't?" Grissom asked, taken aback by his
  question. "I don't know, it was from an admirer it said."
        Campbell smiled. "Yet another man to fling off. God I
  wish I had your problems," she laughed, letting herself into
  the tiny apartment.
        "Really?" Grissom replied, smiling, "I thought you and
  Tiber were getting along well."
        "Oh yeah?" Campbell smiled. "He hasn't had much time
  for me lately. It's the bad thing about being a helmsman."
        "I never thought of that," Grissom grimaced. "Well, I
  haven't gone shopping yet, so I'm out of absolutely everything.
  You'll have to make do with ordered-food."
        "Gotta be better than the ENTERPRISE's idea of food,"
  Gahrut muttered.
        "This from someone who eats pebbles for breakfast,"
  Campbell smiled. "How about some Mandarin, ENTERPRISE does a
  lousy job with spices."
        Grissom walked to the aparment's computuer console
  and entered the request. A few minutes later, the food arrived
  and the trio began their shoreleave party.
 
  CHAPTER TWO
 
        Tago had lied when he said the Riley's room wouldn't be
  much. It provided a spectacular view over the entirety of Star
  Fleet Academy, and of the Golden Gate bridge. The night image,
  filled with so many lights both on ground and in space,
  captivated Riley's attention. He could have even sworn that he
  could make out the outline of the giant spacedock orbiting
  overhead.
        Tago walked in, carrying a glass of Romulan Ale to his
  friend, and wearing a large, fiendish smile. "So, Captain, what
  do you think of the room?"
        "Awesome view," Riley confided. "Is that spacedock up
  there?" he asked, pointing to a distant shadow in the heavens.
        "Yeah, that's it," Tago replied, "It's at her far point
  in orbit. She'll show up better in a week or so, and that's a
  sight to behold."
        "I bet it is," Riley smiled.
        "I got something for you," Tago said, handing over the
  drink. "A friend of mine, a regular, got me Saavik's address.
  The Doctor was very helpful."
        Riley sighed heavily, mainly to demostrate effect. "Why
  did you go and do that, Tago? I wanted a vacation, not
  frustration."
        "You've been frustrated for thirty-five years, Captain,"
  Tago laughed. "Don't you think it's time, man?"
        Riley stood from his bed, taking the drink. "I don't
  know, Tago. Conflict of interest and all that," he added.
        "Look, Tom," Tago responded, "in all of the years I've
  known you, not once have you comprimised your job. The truth is
  you're scared. You've never been in love, never even dated. And
  now you've got a First Officer who reminds you of Venus."
        Riley frowned. "I've never had time for any of that," he
  explained. "I've always had a mission to perform, or a job to
  do. My personal life came last."
        "You've got three weeks before the ENTERPRISE is ready to
  leave, Tom," Toga retorted. "You've got time now. And you'll
  have time on ship. What's wrong in giving it a chance?"
        Riley paused a long second, lost in thought. "You drive,"
  he decided, before taking a sip of his ale.
 
        Riley walked to the door just as it had opened. He had
  expected Saavik's beautiful visage to appear in front of him,
  but the Vulcan who stood there was much taller, much older, and
  decidedly male.
        Riley had inadvertantly, and almost literally, stumbled
  into a legend. "Ambassador Spock," Riley blurted in disbelief.
  "It's a honor to meet you, sir."
        "Likewise, Captain," Spock replied with a lift of his
  eyebrow. "Indeed, your reputation proceeds you. Star Fleet has
  informed me of your outstanding success in the Neutral Zone,
  you should be congradulated."
        "I could have handled it better," Riley admitted,
  remembering Deuce's death. "But thank you, your words mean a
  lot to me."
        Spock nearly smiled. The new Captain of the ENTERPRISE
  was humbled, even though his carreer had been quite impressive
  on its own right. It was the first time Spock realized that he
  was a legend. "I am flattered, Captain," he replied cooly.
        "Peace and long life, Ambassador," Riley responded,
  giving Spock the Vulcan salute.
        "Live long and prosper, T'Salek," the Ambassador
  responded, citing Riley's Romulo-Vulcan name. "I look forward
  to discussion with you at the awards ceremony."
        "I am honored," Riley replied with a bit of shock. "I
  hope I won't disappoint you."
        "Good day, Captain," Spock completed quiety, leaving
  Riley and Saavik alone as he left through the wooden door.
        "Ambassador Spock?" Riley asked, impressed. "I wasn't
  aware that he was even on Earth."
        "He has been discussing matters with the President,"
  Saavik answered flatly. Riley was already feeling unsure as to
  why he even bothered to show up. "He has been in touch with
  Senator Pardek of Romulus. They are working on peace
  negociations," Saavik continued, not even looking at him.
        Riley fully stepped in, tired of waiting for an
  invitation. "Saavik, I know things haven't been well between
  us," he began nervously.
        "We have performed well," Saavik responded even more
  distantly. "As Captain and First Officer, our efficiency
  rating has been well into the ninetieth percentile."
        "That's not what I meant," Riley argued. "I didn't come
  here to discuss politics, or our efficiency rating."
        "Then what reason do you have for being here, Captain,"
  Saavik responded coldly, causing Riley to draw a deep breath to
  regain his courage.
        "I needed to talk to you," Riley admitted. "Actually,
  Tago felt that I needed to talk to you."
        "What is there to discuss?" Saavik curtly asked. "We
  both have been very hesistant to adress the matter at hand.
  Obviously, we are not yet ready to admit our feelings."
        "I can say it to your face, Saavik," Riley replied. "I
  love you. I know that as your Captain, I'm facing a serious
  conflict of interest. But I can't ignore it." It was obvious
  that he was having difficulty with the statements. He voice
  quaked, and his hands shook. It was the first time she had seen
  him scared.
        Saavik sat down, unable to answer or reply for a few
  moments. "It's worse for me, Thomas," she finally spoke,
  breaking the uneasy silence that had settled into the room.
  "I'm Vulcan, I don't act on my emotions. It goes against
  everything I've learned."
        Riley frowned, regretting his decision. "I should have
  realized that. I'm sorry to bother you," he continued, heading
  to leave.
        "It doesn't mean that I don't love you, Thomas," she
  quickly added, not allowing him to leave. "I do love you. I
  just didn't want to admit it to myself."
        Riley turned, not looking relieved. "What do we do now?"
  he asked. "Can I be an effective Captain with you as my First
  Officer? Can I be that detatched when duty calls?"
        "I think you can," she replied. "It's like you're two
  different people, A cold calculating ship's Captain when you
  need to be, and a caring man when you can be."
        "My two halves," Riley added, a bit disturbed. "It would
  seem to be the case."
        The two sat silent again for several moments. It was
  painfully obvious how lacking in experience the two were in
  dealing with these types of emotions.
        "Saavik," Riley finally dared, "would you do me the honor
  of being my date for the awards banquet Wednesday?"
        Saavik smiled, for the first time that Riley could
  remember. "It is I who would be honored," she answered.
        Riley beamed, the knotting is his stomach working its way
  straight. "Then I'll pick you up one hour beforehand."
        "Tom," she interrupted, "Ambassador Spock will be our
  chaperone. Does that bother you?"
        Riley nodded the negative, his eyes showing a mild
  contentment. "Nothing bothers me right now, Saavik. For once."
 
        Grissom returned with yet another box of goods which
  needed to be immediately packed. Her family had already begun
  providing her with replacement stuff for the things lost when
  her quarters left the ENTERPRISE.
        The box she carried was quite heavy, but wasn't worth
  attaching the expensive av-grav units for a three minute trip.
  Her tiny form was withering under the strain, however.
        Her temporary apartment had three boxes in it already,
  and no furniture other than a bed, chair, and table. The
  kitchen had no supplies in it. She cursed herself for
  forgetting, knowing she would have to order-out again.
        "Message for Miss Paula Grissom," the computer blurted
  out once it had succeeded in defining who had entered the room.
  "Audio message for Paula Grissom."
        "Play it, please," she responded, letting the large box
  crash at her feet.
        "Hello, pistol," the computer played, and Paula froze in
  terror. "Do you remember me?" the disguised voice continued,
  taunting her. "It's been a long time, but I'm so pleased that
  you came back to visit me. I just wanted to tell you that I was
  thinking about you."
        Like a machine she walked to the computer bank, lifting
  her finger ever so slowly to the controls. "I've missed you,
  Paula," the maniacal voice continued. "I've wanted you for so
  long, I can't tell you how pleased I am that you a nearby."
        Desperately, she hit the erase command, which abruptly
  killed the message. "Where did that come from?" she demanded.
        "Voice message did not have address trailer," the
  computer answered in its ever-cheery tone. "Trace is
  unavailable."
        She quiety went to her supply bag, removed the phaser
  from within, and strapped it to her side. "Refuse all messages
  without trailers, computer," she commanded with a failing
  voice.
        It was happening all over again.
 
  CHAPTER THREE
 
        "Miss Campbell," Saavik began with a bit of nervousness
  in her voice. "I didn't expect that you would have any company.
  I can return later if you would like." The shower was running
  in the other room, leaving Saavik to feel like she had
  interrupted someone else's affair.
        "It's all right, Commander," the younger officer replied.
  "Tiber's just getting cleaned up for shopping later, he'll be
  out of here in a few minutes anyway."
        It was unusual for a high-ranking Star Fleet officer to
  visit the private apartments of her command, but Saavik was
  having difficulty with her own personal situation, and Campbell
  seemed to be the most qualified to discuss it. It had been no
  secret that Tiber and she had been seeing each-other regularly,
  and that the two were intimate. It was a logical decision to
  ask her about such matters, since she seemed to be having
  success and experience. "I wanted to discuss a personal matter
  with you," she stammered, mildly failing to keep her
  emotionless facade.
        "Oh," Campbell said exitedly. "In that case I insist that
  you stay," she continued with a smile. "Would you like a drink?
  I have some herbal tea brewing. I know it isn't traditional
  Vulcan teas, but I think it's quite good."
        "Thank you," Saavik replied, even though Campbell was
  already heading to the kitchen area. "I did not know with whom
  I should discuss this, I hope I am not inconviencing you."
        "Not at all," Campbell replied as she could hear the
  shower water being turned off. "Is this about the Captain?"
        Saavik nearly flushed. "You know about us?" she replied
  in disbelief. "Have we been that obvious?"
        "Yes," Campbell admitted. "Not to a major point, but it's
  obvious that you two liked each other since he came aboard. You
  held hands a little to long, stood a bit too close when
  talking, that sort of thing."
        "How does standing close together denote affection?"
  Saavik asked innocently enough. "I understand the tradition of
  holding hands, but I was not considering affection for Thomas
  until recently."
        Campbell returned with a large glass of herbal tea. The
  scent was most pleasing. "It's not something you think about,
  it just happens. It's like, well, Tiber and I were friends a
  long time before we became a couple. Until someone else
  mentioned it, we never even really gave it much thought."
        "Fascinating," Saavik replied cooly. "It has been so long
  since I felt these feelings, I had forgotten what it was like.
  It was easier then, with David."
        "David?" Campbell asked, not knowing how thin the ice was
  where she treaded.
        "A scientist, a very kind, resourceful man," Saavik
  explained. "It was years ago. We were in love, at least for a
  short while. He was killed before we could pursue a long-term
  relationship."
        "I'm sorry," Campbell replied, sitting across from
  Saavik. "I didn't mean to push."
        "I've accepted it long ago," Saavik admitted. "I have
  been reminded of his loss as of late, but I have accepted the
  fact he is gone."
        "What do you feel about the Captain?" Campbell inquired,
  half out of curiousity. "If you don't mind my asking."
        "I respect him," Saavik confessed. "He intrigues me, and
  excites me. I want to be with him," she slowly continued, "as
  much as possible."
        Campbell's eyes widened. "I'd say that qualifies as
  love," she commented with a wide smile. "Have you talked to him
  about it?"
        "We have been having difficulty," Saavik admitted. "He is
  concerned about a conflict of interest, as am I. But we have
  agreed to go to the awards ceremony as a couple."
        "That's great," Campbell announced. "So, are you all
  prepared for your date? I mean, have you picked out your dress
  and everything?"
        Saavik was floored by the question. She had expected to
  have a long, drawn out conversation about what she should do
  about being with Riley, and Campbell had abruptly switched
  subjects. "Dress? I was planning to wear dress uniform, as
  dictated by regulations."
        "You can't dance in those uniforms," Campbell protested.
  "Besides, they're not flattering. Regulations state that formal
  attire is to be worn, not neccessarily uniform."
        Campbell had already stood up, gathering some odds and
  ends. "Tiber," she called into the closed bedroom.
        "Yeah?" the Andorian's muffled voice came back.
        "You're taking me and Commander Saavik to Los Angeles?
  Comprennez?" Campbell commanded with a smile.
        "Oh I am?" Tiber began to protest. "Oh, you and
  Commander Saavik? Sure, yeah, right away," he replied as he
  mentally replayed the message.
 
        "She said 'yes', Tago," Riley muttered. "Now, I've
  officially got a date for the awards ceremony. I now get to
  look like a total fool in front of Admiral Sulu and Ambassador
  Spock. Thank you so much for talking me into this."
        "You'll be fine, Tom," Tago retorted, taking the
  cramped hovercraft into a mild climb. "All you need to do is
  change your looks and personality and you'll have no problem."
        "Oh thanks," Riley returned. "And I suppose that you've
  been with every woman on the planet by now, right?"
        "No," Tago admitted with a smile. "But they all wish that
  I had."
        Riley sighed heavily. "Right, yeah. Tell me, Tago. Have
  you ever thought about counselling for that huge ego of yours?"
        "I will when you feel comfortable without that phaser
  rifle on your leg," Tago blurted. "Why do you always have to
  carry that damn thing around anyway? It makes me nervous."
        "That's why," Riley smiled. "Actually, I'm just more
  comfortable with it. Ten years of working Star Fleet
  Intelligence has made me a bit paranoid."
        "Yeah," Tago agreed. "But that's behind you. You've got a
  decent future ahead of you. You're the Captain of the starship
  ENTERPRISE."
        Riley sighed again. "Yeah," he muttered. "I suppose
  that's why I've got this awards ceremony tomorrow. I just hope
  I don't fluster up."
        "You've got a Vulcan girl to say 'yes' to you for a
  date," Tago laughed. "What could go right?"
 
  CHAPTER FOUR
 
        The trip from the shops of Los Angeles to the rooms of
  San Fransisco was frustratingly slow. Grissom never realized
  just how much she was used to the transporters aboard the
  ENTERPRISE. But the trip was over, and her clothes for the
  awards ceremony later had been bought.
        She had about four hours to get herself ready for it, and
  then she would move into her new room aboard the ENTERPRISE,
  away from the problems of Earth.
        "Well then," Gahrut announced as the two left the
  turbolift and stepped to her apartment doors. "I need to
  properly fix myself up for the awards ceremony later."
        "Right," she replied. "I suppose that you want to hide
  all those embarrassing cracks in your hide, and those unsightly
  crystal growths."
        "Hey, we men have to primp just like everyone else," the
  Horta retorted. "Anyway, I've got to get going. Are you sure
  that you're going to be okay?"
        "Thanks," Grissom muttered, embarrassed by her fear. "The
  streets aren't very safe at night, and I didn't really want to
  be alone."
        "No problem," Gahrut replied. "My room's three floors
  above and about three-hundred feet south. If you need anything,
  talk, movies, granite, don't hesitate."
        Grissom gave a nervous smile in reply, letting Gahrut
  shuffle off into the nearest turbolift. She sucked in her
  breath, trying to regain her composure.
        Grissom entered her room again, shaking. Her previous
  encounter within had nearly frenzied her, and it had taken all
  of her courage to re-enter the room. She had decided to move
  out, to try and run away again.
        "Computer, messages?" she asked, praying that he hadn't
  called again.
        There was no reply. It was then she noticed that her
  computer system had been shut down. The room was black and
  silent. In one smooth action she drew her phaser and manually
  turned on the lighting system.
        The lights came on, illuminating the dark corners
  of the room. She scanned it over, looking for things out of
  place. Other than the computer, everything appeared untouched.
        Hesitantly, she paced to the door to her bedroom. It had
  been opened, a small crack was between the door and the wall.
  Someone had been inside.
        She gathered her strength, raising the phaser to the room
  on the other side of the door. In one swift action, she threw
  the door aside, and froze in abject terror.
        Her clothes had been thrown on the bed, where someone had
  indulged themselves in the most perverse way. The perpetrator
  was long gone, but he had left his presence behind.
        She collapsed, dropping the phaser to the ground, going
  nearly catatonic. There was a note on the bed, written by
  computer. "See you tonight," it began. "I'm waiting for you."
 
  CHAPTER FIVE
 
        "Well, Ambassador," Hikaru Sulu began polite as he
  assumed his table near the stage. "It's a pleasure to see you
  again. Three years, has it?"
        "Three years," Spock replied, setting down his warm
  herbal tea. "Indeed. Three years too long, Admiral," the Vulcan
  finished. "Congradulations on your promotion, Sulu, you have
  been deserving of it for some time."
        "Thank you," Sulu agreed as he slid the seat back under
  him. "And congradulations on your new carreer. I know how
  anxious you are to path things up with the Romulan Senate."
        "All wounds need to be healed," Spock cooly replied. "I
  believe that the time has come for our common hostilities to
  come to an end."
        Sulu nodded in the affirmative. "That's your official
  reason for being here, is it?" he asked with a smile. "I would
  have sworn that you're here to see how Saavik is getting along
  aboard the new ENTERPRISE with a Captain you're uncomfortable
  with."
        Spock went silent for a moment. "You have been speaking
  to Doctor McCoy, have you not? He does exaggerate matters
  somewhat."
        "Actually," Sulu began, "it was a bit obvious even before
  I walked into Tago's. It's too bad I missed Riley though, I
  would've like to meet him."
        "Your fascination with war heroes, Admiral?" Spock
  queried. "I agree that Riley's experience in tactical affairs
  is without question, though his dealings in other areas I have
  found to be lacking."
        "Really?" Sulu smiled, noting that a new waves of guests
  were arriving. "I take it that you've met the Captain lately?"
        "I have," Spock replied, sipping again from his tea. "He
  seems an honorable man. But he is emotionally disturbed. His
  presence is highly cluttered with regrets and pain."
        "This uniform hurts," Riley muttered as Tago led him into
  the doors. "I never did like full dress," he added, tugging at
  his neck. "And the idea of tying something tightly around your
  neck to look good never made much sense to me."
        Tago laughed, thankful that the dress code had been a bit
  more lenient on him. "Didn't you wear dress uniform when you
  got aboard your ship?" he asked with a smile.
        "I haven't worn a dress uniform since I graduated from
  the Academy, Tago," Riley snapped back. "You don't usually wear
  uniforms in the Intelligence branch, must less dress ones."
        "Yeah," Tago muttered. "I just think you're upset that
  you can't wear that damn rifle in here," he replied with a
  faint smile. "Formal occaisions were never your strong suit,
  were they?"
        "I guess not," he sighed. "But then, that's not why Star
  Fleet wanted me was it?"
        "Star Fleet wanted him for his knowledge of the
  Romulans," Sulu argued. "And he has proven himself a capable
  Captain on three occaisions, despite his setbacks."
        "He behaves more emotionally than Doctor McCoy," Spock
  retorted. "And his relationship with his First Officer makes me
  apprehensive."
        "Ah," Sulu smiled, "the old fatherly instinct. My father
  once told me that his father-in-law made a habit of cleaning
  his katana in front of him whenever he asked to see my mother."
        "Your implication?" Spock asked noncommitedly.
        "You're worried about Saavik falling in love with Riley,"
  Sulu replied. "Well, from what I hear, that's already happened.
  It's just sentient nature."
        Spock noticed two arriving gentlemen entering the room.
  He recognized the larger as Captain Riley, the other was a
  Tellarite wearing what seemed to be a business suit. "Perhaps,
  Admiral," Spock continued. "Perhaps I do feel paternal
  instincts toward Commander Saavik. After all, I did raise her
  after the V'Ger incident until I died."
        "There's a unique claim," Sulu laughed.
        "I never claimed to be a dancer," Riley argued, stunned
  by the news he had heard. "Besides, I don't think she's going
  to want me to dance."
        "All women want to dance," Tago countered with a devilish
  smile. "Granted some in different ways, like the Orion Women,
  but they all do."
        "Well, I didn't expect that," Riley admitted. "Maybe I'll
  be lucky and she'll change her mind and stay home."
        "You're getting the medal of valor, and the distinguised
  arrowhead," Tago replied. "I doubt that she's going to stay
  home. Face it, you're on your first date, Captain."
        "Great," he replied with some loathing. "What if I screw
  this up?"
        "Are you expecting that he'll screw up somehow?" Sulu
  asked. "His psyche profile is top-notch. I have to agree
  with Sonak's recommendations about him."
        "I agree," Spock replied. "My regret," he cotinued, "lies
  with the knowledge of Rliey that I have, that both he and
  Commander Saavik do not."
        Sulu gave a concerned look, but Spock's expression made
  it apparant that he would divulge no further on the subject.
  "Well, he's here anyway, the newest Captain of the ENTERPRISE.
  I wonder what Jim would say."
        Spock raised an eyebrow at the thought. "I believe that
  he has other, more pressing, concerns on his mind at the
  moment."
        "She'll be here any moment," Tago prodded. "She's
  arriving with some of your crewmates. You can't duck out on
  her. If she doesn't kill you the Admirals will."
        "I'm not ducking out," Riley argued. "I'm just nervous.
  Okay, I'm very nervous," he smiled.
        Tago pointed towards the door, making Riley turn to face
  the most lovely picture he'd seen in quite some time.
        Saavik entered, escorted by Tiber and Campbell. She was
  wearing a glistening red dress, cut low. She was adorned by
  long pearl earrings and a magnificent pearl necklace. Her hair
  had been neatly primped, and her makeup had been perfectly
  placed.
        Riley drew in a deep breath, suddenly realizing that he
  was staring at her glamorous beauty. "Tago," he managed though
  a mild shock, "I believe my date has arrived."
 
 

-- 

"Our crew's living quarters have left the ship."
			- Secundam Yto aboard the IRON CLAW II
Neale Davidson, another writer wanna-be. neale@mentor.cc.purdue.edu

Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Path: moe.ksu.ksu.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!wupost!spool.mu.edu!sdd.hp.com!news.cs.indiana.edu!noose.ecn.purdue.edu!mentor.cc.purdue.edu!neale
From: neale@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (Neale Davidson)
Subject: STTUQ 11-15/15 repost
Message-ID: <Bu26MH.CxK@mentor.cc.purdue.edu>
Organization: Purdue University Computing Center
Date: Fri, 4 Sep 1992 14:51:51 GMT
Lines: 533

 
  - STAR TREK      ---------------------------------------------------
  - THE UNFAIR QUO ---------------------------------------------------
 
  Part Eleven through Fifteen of Fifteen
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  CHAPTER ELEVEN
 
        Gahrut emerged from the room after another three hours.
  Seeing her, his guilt was even more intensified. Matthews was
  still there, along with two security officers, phasers ready.
        "It's not your fault, you know," Matthews tried when
  seeing the young Horta emerge. "There was nothing you could
  have done for her."
        "The hell there wasn't," Gahrut chided himself. "I should
  have known there was trouble when she called up to escort her.
  I should have been ready."
        "There was no way, Gahrut," Matthews tried again. "You
  did your best. That's all anyone could have given to her."
  Gahrut turned, unconvinced. "Look, Captain Riley's doing
  everything he can do at the moment, maybe you can help him out?
  I'm sure he would appreciate it."
        Gahrut stirred. "Any ideas on who the bastard is?" he
  queried with a dark overtone. "Any clues yet?"
        "Not yet," Matthews replied honestly. Thankfully, without
  clues, Gahrut would have little to vent his anger upon as yet.
  "The genetic traces we've found on her have been tampered with.
  Whoever did this had access to a lot of expensive equipment."
        "He was a Star Fleet officer," Gahrut muttered. "Of
  course he'd have access to equipment. He could have just
  authorized it away and no one would be the wiser. Damn him,"
  Gahrut concluded with a grunt.
        "Look, is there anything you can add?" Matthews tried
  again. "If you want to help Paula, you need to clear your head
  so you can think straight."
        Gahrut stopped moving. "If your wife was raped while you
  were knocked unconscious, would you be so calm and rational
  about it?" he dared, giving away too much.
        "My wife?" Matthews flustered for a moment. "No, if
  anything happed to Jean, I'd been wanting to kill something
  right about now," he admitted. "It doesn't mean that it's going
  to help anything."
        Gahrut turned again. "But at least you can appreciate how
  I feel? Can't you?" he pleaded for understanding.
        Matthews fell silent, taken aback by the innuendo that
  Gahrut was trying to convey. "She means that much to you,
  Lieutenant?"
        "I've known her all my life," Gahrut replied, quietly.
  "In a way, we grew up together. The longest we've been apart
  was when she served at Starbase three after graduation and I
  got an early transfer to the ACUTIS. That was about three
  months."
        "And," Mathhews dared, "You feel like she's your mate or
  something?" He forced himself to forget the absurdity of the
  notion.
        Gahrut came close to sigh, at least as close as a Horta
  was capable. "Sort of. I know it's physically impossible, but
  it still doesn't mean that can't have feelings for her does
  it?" he asked with a bit of reluctance. "I mean, there's more
  to care and affection than mating, isn't there?"
        "Yes," Matthews admitted. "Yes, there is. But you do
  realize that sometime, eventually, she'll want another
  humanoid,"  he carefully added. "Just as you will want another
  Horta, at some point in your life."
        "I want to be human," Gahrut confessed. "Just so I be
  with her. I love her so much, I can't stand it sometimes," he
  confided. "We've been so close."
        Matthews smiled knowingly. "I think that's a bit out of
  my league, Lieutenant," he joked. "But anything's possible.
  Maybe a tour on the holodeck?"
        Gahrut said nothing, taking mild offense at the remark.
  "I guess you can't understand, Doctor. I guess it really is
  absurd to even contemplate," he added, sliding down the hall.
        Matthews stood, a bit remorseful about his comments.
  "Sorry," he muttered as he watch the young Horta slowly leave
  his sight.
 
  CHAPTER TWELVE
 
        "I need to go inside," Saavik indicated as she entered
  the cooridor. "Captain Riley's orders," she continued after the
  guard hesistated.
        "Doctor Matthews told me not to let anyone inside," the
  Guard stammered in reply. "He said that that order included
  anyone, regardless of rank."
        "I outrank the Doctor," Saavik reminded. "And Riley
  outranks you. Should I inform him of your disobedience?" she
  asked flatly. "Or will you let me inside? It would be wiser to
  obey me, would it not?"
        "Yes, Commander," the guard admitted. "But Matthews said
  that she wouldn't be available for statement for a few hours,"
  he tried again, fully obeying the Doctor's orders.
        "Then," Saavik replied, "tell the Doctor that I will not
  verbally discuss matters with her. But I still need the
  information the Captain Riley has requested."
        There was no way that the guard was going to win, and he
  realized it. "Yes, Commander. I will inform him of your answer
  when he returns."
        Saavik nodded her acknowledgement, and ordered the door
  to let her in. Complying, the doors parted to reveal the dimly
  lit hospital room. Grissom was lying on the bed, unmoving. Her
  expression was only given away by the few tears rolling from
  her eyes.
        Saavik looked down at the petit woman which lay beneath
  her. She seemed so young, so very fragile. How could anyone
  seek to destroy this innocence? How could anyone be so
  corrupted with evil? she asked herself.
        "Paula," she gently began, moving closer to the bed,
  "It's Commander Saavik, do you recognize me?"
        Grissom slowly nodded the affirmative. "Commander," she
  painfully spoke. "ENTERPRISE, I remember." She was waking, but
  it was obvious that she was still heavily in shock.
        "I need to talk to you," Saavik tried again, sitting down
  at Grissom's side. "I need to know what happened."
        "It's cold," Grissom said, not hearing. "It's so cold in
  here." She was losing it now, her clinging reality slipping
  away under the torrent of emotional pain. "What happened? Why
  is it so cold?"
        "It isn't cold," Saavik replied, raising her hand slowly
  to Grissom's face. "It's warm in here, Paula. We're here to
  take care of you."
        "Take care of me?" Grissom replied. "Saavik? ENTERPRISE,"
  she continued, trying to piece together her thoughts. "Gahrut,
  sweet Gahrut."
        Saavik let loose a small smile, having learned a little
  more about the strange pair's relationship. "Lieutenant
  Grissom, this is Saavik. We are in an emergency and need your
  help. Can your help us?" she asked carefully.
        "Emergency," Grissom trailed. "Red alert?" she managed,
  her mind still not bringing anything together. "ENTERPRISE
  under attack," she continued, "I must help."
        "One of our crew has been attacked," Saavik continued
  carefully, readying herself. "We need to know who did it,
  Lieutenant. We need to know before he does it again."
        "Under attack," Grissom muttered, "ACUTIS attack?" She
  semmed to tense up at saying that. "Attacked on ACUTIS," she
  finally considered. "I was on the ACUTIS."
        "Yes," Saavik replied with anticipation. "We're on the
  ACUTIS. Can you tell me what happened?"
        "ACUTIS," she babbled inconherently. "Attacked on the
  ACUTIS," she trailed. Then she was gone, her mind lost to
  reality, refusing to accept it.
        Saavik stood over her, making her final commitment. She
  parted her hand, and gently placed it on Grissom's brow.
        "Your mind," Saavik slowly began, gathering her courage,
  "to my mind. Your thoughts, to my thoughts." She reached out,
  mentally, looking into the Grissom's tortured soul. "We are
  merging, you and I. We are thinking as one. There is nothing we
  need to hide from one-another."
        "Please," Paula managed even as her world turned about
  her. "I don't want to remember."
 
        Saavik transported aboard the empty decks of the USS
  ACUTIS. Every detail was vividly depicted, though somehow, she
  could tell that everything was distorted as well. The halls
  were too dark, too long. There was a sour smell to the air,
  something she could not recognize. "Paula," she cautiously
  began to the image around her, "this is Saavik. I'm here to
  help you."
        She walked through the cooridor. Though her bearings
  weren't entirely accurate, she judged that she was walking on a
  quarters deck aboard Grissom's memory of the ACUTIS. She
  reached out to the walls, they were ice cold. "Please, Paula,
  let me see you. We can work through this."
        Saavik walked to the turbolift. The doors opened with the
  familiar hiss. "Level, bitch?" the male computer's voice asked
  fiendishly.
        "Grissom's quarters," Saavik replied warningly.
        "Wouldn't you rather go to mine?" the turbolift ventured.
  "I could ride your in shaft instead," it laughed. Saavik
  punched the console, letting her mind dominate the imagry
  somewhat. The doors opened again, revealing the interior of
  Grissom's cabin.
        "Paula," Saavik asked again, "I know you want to show me.
  I know that you want to let go of the pain." She looked around,
  and outside the window. There were no stars outside, though she
  could faintly see the image of the EXCELSIOR in the distance.
  It seemed to be Grissom's single beacon of hope. "Please, let
  me in. Let me know."
        "Ensign Grissom," someone called from the door which
  Saavik had answered. "I need to discuss some things with you
  that I find disturbing."
        The figure was dark and distorted, the voice was too deep
  to be real. She was still sheilding herself, but at least the
  memories were playing. "What is it, sir?" Saavik found herself
  answering. "I understood that Lieutenant Jackson was pleased
  with my work."
        "He was," the figure replied, moving closer,
  uncomfortably close. "I just wanted to talk to you about a few
  things. Wouldn't you like to sit down?"
        Saavik found herself unable to fight the impulse of
  sitting, as Grissom must have done so long ago. She didn't
  remember if the chair had been there before, but it was
  somewhat solid now. "I need to be returning to engineering in a
  few minutes."
        "This won't take long, Ensign," he replied. His voice
  seemed to lighten somehow. It was becoming a bit more
  recognizable, a bit more notable. "I just wanted to ask you a
  couple of questions."
        "Questions, Captain?" they countered in unison. "What
  do you want?" Captain? Saavik wondered even as they said it.
  Captain Heito?
        "I was wondering," the Captain replied, stepping forward
  a bit, his face still distorted by the vision. "I was wondering
  had badly you wanted me."
        "Excuse me, sir," the two repsonded, stepping away from
  him. "I don't think I heard you properly," they tried again as
  he still move closer.
        "Oh," the Captain replied with a twisted grin, "I know
  you want me. You're not the first. It just takes time for you
  to realize that you're already mine."
        Grissom slash Saavik stepped back more, "I think you need
  to leave, sir. This is not appropriate conduct." But the
  Captain was quickly on her, grabbing her breast.
        She, they, slapped him with nearly inhuman strength. The
  Captain slapped back, angrily, throwing them on the floor. "You
  can't deny me," he goaded, his accent becoming clearer. "You
  know you want me," he said again, ripping the communicator from
  her chest.
        They tried to break free from him, but his weight was
  greater than hers. Saavik concentrated on the image, trying to
  make it more clear. The feature seemed more defined, but it
  still wasn't enough.
        And, more importantly, she was unable to break free of
  the mind meld. They screamed as he ripped apart their uniform's
  top, revealing the breast he had fondled. A small amount of
  blood dripped from where he had scratched her. "Come on,
  Ensign, I know you've been dreaming of this," he said in a
  self-assured tone which sent shivers up their spine.
        The feature became more clear, and there was no doubt.
  Captain Heito was above them, raping them. Saavik and Grissom
  fought on, trying to change the relived nightmare, but the
  reality, the memory was too strong. He had stripped them enough
  now, permitting the rape to run its course.
        But there was a new form in the room. A tall, dark
  Captain carrying a phaser rifle. "Saavik, Grissom," he cooly
  said as he aimed it at his target, "You are free. This is the
  past, and it is over."
        The image of the wicked Captain faded into nothingness,
  and the two female's combined form recovered in appearance.
  They stood, confused. "Captain," they said in their mixed
  voice. "Is that really you?"
        "Yes," Riley commented. "I'm here, with the both of you.
  It's over." The room changed around them, and Saavik seemed to
  detatch herself from Grissom's image, then resolidfy.
        The two were standing in the hospital room, with Riley at
  the door. "Captain," Grissom managed through her tears. "You
  know? I mean, you saw it?"
        "I saw your memory of it," Riley replied, walking over to
  her. "I saw enough," he quietly said, taking her in his arms
  and hugging her as she cried. "He won't get away from us, now.
  He will be punished, and it will be over."
        She cried, but her nightmares would finally cease.
  Someone else had experienced her pain with her, making it
  almost bearable.
 
  CHAPTER THIRTEEN
 
        The ladies had been beamed in, one at a time, in front of
  Riley and Sulu. The Star Fleet office was sparse, except for a
  few notable pieces of antique weaponry that Sulu had been
  allowed some time to pack in. But the newest Admiral hadn't yet
  been given proper time to dress his new workplace.
        It had taken only a few moments for the Admiral to summon
  them here, much to the relief of Riley, who had expected the
  women cringe at the thought of discussing the matter amoungst
  themselves.
        But cicumstances were different than normal. The
  women didn't have to take it upon themselves to report their
  incidents, they were being asked. Perhaps, it helped as
  well that the three of them had suffered the same fate and
  Grissom, and that there were understanding souls who could
  share and relate their experiences.
        The first, the one sitting most to Riley's left, was
  Lieutenant Commander Tierra Washington. She was rather
  smallish, and almost fatally attractive. "Admiral," she greeted
  as she took her seat. "Captain Riley, it is a pleasure to
  finally meet you."
        "I am flattered," Riley answered flatly, thankful that
  Saavik was elsewhere.
        The second was Lea Thomas, considerably older than her
  Star Fleet visual records, but no less pleasant in expression.
  "Hello, Captain, Admiral," she greeted nervously, having
  forgotten Fleet protocol.
        Last came Mary Quix, who said nothing as she took her
  seat. Of the three, she seemed the most hesitant to be here.
  Understandble, considering the circumstances, but Riley
  needed her to be somewhat talkative. She had to at least tell
  them all what had happened aboard the ACUTIS.
        "The first thing I want all of you to know is that you
  are not alone," Riley began, trying to sound as relaxed as
  possible. "No one here is going to force you to speak. But I
  want you all to know that there is a young woman resting on the
  ENTERPRISE who's gone through the very same thing that you
  have. And I don't want it to happen again."
        "Heito," Tierra began coldly, "Captain Heito should be
  punished for what he did to me. But I couldn't report it, I
  tried," she continued painfully. "Admiral Keyan told me that
  reporting the incident would hurt my career."
        "At least you got that far," Mary Quix snorted. "I just
  left the ship and tried to forget about it." She let out a
  breath, forcing her body to relax.
        "No one's blaming any of you," Sulu replied caringly. "I
  know that this must have been difficult for you," he began.
        "How could you know?" Lea suddenly snapped. "No one ever
  did anything like that to you. No one forced themselves inside
  of you, Admiral. No one told you how you were supposed to
  feel, and how cheap you were because you wanted it." Her temper
  flared, causing her stern face to redden.
        "No he didn't," Riley snapped back in reply. "And maybe
  he can't relate with the experience. I can, I've seen enough of
  it on Hellguard to know exactly what it is. You've got the
  chance to stop it now, and all I'm asking is for your help. How
  many more is it going to take before Heito is stopped?"
        "If you know what he did," Lea replied, "then why aren't
  you prosecuting? Why do you need us?"
        Riley sat back, trying to calm himself, cursing himself
  for never dealing with other people's feelings more often. "I
  need you because this is mainly a case of word against word.
  Grissom's got a bad reputation in Star Fleet, and Heito has a
  chance to get off the charges."
        "You want us to testify," Quix contiuned for him. "You
  want us to go to court." The thought, for the trio of women,
  was disturbing. It was hard enough to relieve the experience
  here, nevertheless in front of a review board, in front of
  their aggressor.
        "I do," Riley admitted, "I do want you to help me
  prosecute Heito. With your help we can put him away." The women
  hesitated, unsure of themselves. "Look, I think he's done this
  to eight women already, and he's still in charge of that ship.
  I don't want someone else to get hurt."
        "I'll do it," Lea muttered. "Since it's not a secret
  anymore, I'll help you." Riley offered his hand to hers,
  shaking it firmly. "It's been hard living with myself since
  then, but maybe I can make it up to myself."
        The other two were more hesitant, but more receptive
  after Lea's decision. "I'll prepare a statement," Quix
  responded. "I don't want to sit in a courtroom. I can't take
  that," she admitted, with a bit of shame.
        Tierra was the last to agree, pressured by the weight of
  the room. "I'll take him to court with you, Captain," she
  decided with a wavering voice. "It won't be easy for any of us,
  but you're right. More people are going to be hurt if we don't
  do anything."
        Riley crossed his arms. He had his suspect, and now he
  had three more victims, ready to tesitfy against him. All he
  needed to do now was to confront and capture Captain Heito
  before the ACUTIS left orbit.
 
  CHAPTER FOURTEEN
 
        "That gun isn't allowed on this ship," the Lieutenant
  nervously protested shortly after Riley emereged from the
  transporter beam. Riley, Saavik, and Gahrut had just beamed
  aboard at the ENTERPRISE's Captain's insistance, their leader
  having blood in his eyes.
        "Where's Captain Heito?" Riley demanded, refusing to
  relenquish his weapon, particularly not to someone beneath him
  in rank. "I'm here to place him under arrest for sexual assault
  and nine counts of rape."
        The words hit hard, and the Lieutenant stammered under
  their weight. "This is a joke, right?"
        "Negative," Saavik coldly responded. "Send your security
  teams to corner Captain Heito at once, or be dismissed from
  duty," she commanded.
        It only took a second for the Lieutenant to make his
  decision. "This is Lieutenant Harbringer to Security," he
  shook, fearful of the grim trio.
        "Security here," repsonded a deep, husky voice.
        "Can you," the young Lieutenant couldn't believe he was
  actually saying this. "Can you place the Captain under arrest?"
        "You want me to what?" came the somewhat shocked reply.
  "Have you been drinking something, Max?"
        "This is Captain Riley under orders from Admiral Sulu,"
  Riley finally interrupted, none too politely. "Get me your
  Captain now, mister, or kiss your Fleet career good-bye."
        "Yes, sir," the answer came in a disturbed voice, "right
  away, sir."
 
        Riley, Saavik, and then Gahrut entered the room to the
  observation deck where Heito and three security guards awaited
  them. It was an uneasy moment for the younger Captain. After
  all, here stood the man who presented him his medals. But duty
  demanded that Riley arrest him, duty and something more.
        "What is the meaning of this?" Heito demanded as his own
  security guards held him in check. "You're arresting me,
  Captain? Do you know how rediculous that sounds?"
        "I'm not laughing," Riley muttered, moving closer to the
  ACUTIS Captain. "I'm charging you with nine counts of rape, and
  I have four persons willing to prosecute, with more putting in
  their statments."
        Heito smirked. "Disgruntled ship-mates who couldn't hack
  it aboard the ACUTIS. They'd say anything to cover their
  careers. You of all people should appreciate that."
        "I was in a mind meld with Grissom last night," Riley
  stated coldly. "I know exactly what you did, where and when.
  And I don't care if I put my career on the line so long as you
  go down with me."
        Heito stammered. "You're serious about this, aren't you,
  Mister Riley?" He shook his head, shocked.
        Riley walked up, almost in Heito's face. "You are under
  arrest for the rape of Lieutenant Paula Grissom. By order of
  Star Fleet Command, you are relieved of duty indefinately
  pending trial. Your command of the ACUTIS will be handed over
  to your first officer."
        It was foolish for Heito to resist, but he did. He lunged
  at Riley, hoping to catch the ENTERPRISE Captain off guard.
  Riley let him jump, slamming his fist into Heito's chest as he
  came near. The cracking of bone was all too audible for
  everyone's benefit.
        In another second, the barrel of the phaser rifle was
  levelled at Heito's forhead. "I should just shoot you," Riley
  warned. "After what you did, you deserve it."
        Blood began slowly dripping from Heito's lips. He had
  never before been dispatched so easily. He braced himself for
  inevitable death.
        "Security," Riley commanded after a pause that lasted far
  too long for comfort. "Get this shit off of Federation
  property," he ordered.
        The guards complied, lifting the broken form from the
  floor and out of the door. "I would have shot him," Gahrut
  admitted as the guards carried the form away. "After what he
  did, I wouldn't even have hesitated."
        "There was a time," Riley muttered, "when I wouldn't have
  hesitated either. But now we need to place our faith in our own
  legal system. We've got enough against him to send him away."
 
  CHAPTER FIFTEEN
 
        Riley sat in his apartment, once again putting off
  packing his things. He sat alone, thinking of his shore leave
  and wondering when his vacation would start. Saavik had already
  returned to ship, to prepare for Riley's inspection. Most of
  the local crew were disembarking as well.
        ACUTIS had set sail earlier, for the first time with a
  new Captain at the helm. The trail had taken all of a single
  day. Heito was found guilty and decided not to appeal. The
  blemish on his reputation was too great to allow him to retain
  a command.
        Things had worked out, somewhat. But Riley was tired, and
  not actually eager to return to fleet duty. The truth was, he
  didn't know exactly what to do.
        The door chime went off again, with the final note being
  just a hair too flat. "Come," Riley replied to it as he winced
  from the sound.
        Saavik entered, casually dressed in a sweater and jeans
  that Campbell had bought for her. "Captain," she began flatly,
  "I wanted to personally inform you that the ENTERPRISE will be
  ready for your inspection tomorrow. The crew eagerly awaits
  your return."
        Riley said nothing, but stood and walked over to her. He
  gently placed his arms around her waist and hugged her.
  "Captain?" Saavik asked distantly. "I do not think that this
  behaviour is appropriate for Star Fleet officers," she replied
  coldly.
        "Kiss me, Commander," Riley commanded mockingly. Saavik
  replied, giving a very gentle kiss on the cheek. Riley sighed
  in reply. "Try it again, Commander. Let's see how motivated a
  Star Fleet officer can be."
        This time, Saavik allowed a more passionate kiss,
  pressing hard into him. "Does the Captain approve? Or should I
  engage in more practice?"
        Riley smiled, his mood broken a bit. "I didn't think that
  you really had a sense of humor," he confessed as he tightened
  his hold on her. "God knows I don't," he added.
        Saavik smiled a bit. "You haven't even packed yet. You're
  supposed to be on ship in five hours," she protested.
        "You're supposed to be on ship now, aren't you?" Riley
  countered. "Anyway, I'm glad you're here. I've been a little
  worn out from everything that's happened."
        "I can tell," Saavik replied, letting go of the hold.
  "Tago tells me that you haven't slept once since you beamed
  down. Since your physical needs are substantially higher than
  mine, I would have assumed that you would have reached
  unconsciousness by now."
        Riley smiled. "Physical needs? And what would you know
  about that?" he goaded.
        "You are not speaking logically, Captain," Saavik replied
  flatly. "I am well versed with you biological data as provided
  by Doctor Matthews."
        "I bet," Riley muttered. "Care to help me with this
  packing?" he offered. "I'm not use to having this much stuff
  around."
        Saavik agreed, and started carefully placing his things
  into boxes. He watched her, knowing how difficult a time the
  two of them would have in dealing with their feelings. They
  were both so very inexperienced in these matters, and Saavik
  had a very powerful ghost in her past. He was going to have a
  very long voyage ahead of him. He just hoped that he would find
  some of it enjoyable.
 
        "Paula," the woman began slowly, "this is Counselor
  Joanna Rogers. I've been assigned to your ship, and I thought I
  would start things by seeing how you are doing."
        "Is what happened public knowledge, Counselor?" Grissom
  retorted angrily. "Does everyone know what happened?"
        "No," she replied cooly, "your Captain told me what
  happened, and ordered me to keep my mouth shut about it to
  anyone else but you." She walked in the room, which had already
  been filled with packing boxes. Grissom was going to the
  ENTERPRISE early. "As the new ship's Counselor it's my duty to
  know the details of most of the crew, yourself included. Just
  remember I'm only here to help."
        "I'm sorry, Counselor," Paula offered, letting out a deep
  breath. "I've been very tired and strained since all of this
  began. I just want to forget about it and get on with my life."
        Rogers looked around for a place to sit down, and found
  one atop a large box casually placed in the center of the
  room. "Do you think you will be able to? What you went through
  takes a great deal of time and effort to recover from. You may
  want to talk things over with me. I'm a very good listener."
        "Would you like some coffee?" Paula offered, changing the
  subject. "I haven't packed the kitenette yet, so I've got some
  floating around somewhere."
        "If it isn't any trouble," Rogers replied. "If you don't
  want to talk," she began again, trying to help once more.
        "Not yet," Grissom replied, taking the coffee bag from a
  overly crowded shelf. "I'm not ready yet. I'm sorry, but I have
  to think about things for awhile."
        "I understand," the Counselor replied. "Tell you what,
  we'll have some coffee, and then I'll help you move your stuff
  aboard the ENTERPRISE. You can tell me when your ready."
        "I appreciate it," Grissom replied with a smile. Maybe
  things wouldn't be so bad after all.
 

-- 

"Our crew's living quarters have left the ship."
			- Secundam Yto aboard the IRON CLAW II
Neale Davidson, another writer wanna-be. neale@mentor.cc.purdue.edu

Newsgroups: alt.startrek.creative
Path: moe.ksu.ksu.edu!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!darwin.sura.net!wupost!spool.mu.edu!sdd.hp.com!news.cs.indiana.edu!noose.ecn.purdue.edu!mentor.cc.purdue.edu!neale
From: neale@mentor.cc.purdue.edu (Neale Davidson)
Subject: STTUQ 6-10/15 repost
Message-ID: <Bu24y3.5Gz@mentor.cc.purdue.edu>
Organization: Purdue University Computing Center
Date: Fri, 4 Sep 1992 14:15:38 GMT
Lines: 509

 
  - STAR TREK      ---------------------------------------------------
  - THE UNFAIR QUO ---------------------------------------------------
 
  Part Six through Ten of Fifteen
 
  --------------------------------------------------------------------
 
  CHAPTER SIX
 
        Wether she intended to or not, Saavik had already
  recieved several stares, which did nothing for her nerves.
  While she wasn't overdressed for the occaision, she certainly
  was the best dressed of everyone there.
        Riley walked over, fighting the butterflies in his
  stomach and the urge to run for his life. "You look," he
  stammered as he finally caught up to her, "incredible."
        "Thank you, Thomas," she replied cooly. "Miss Cambell
  aided me with the wardrobe and makeup. She deserves the proper
  credit."
        Tiber and Campbell, however, we spiralling off from
  Saavik already, leaving her more or less alone with her
  captain. Riley smiled at his Lieutenants' playing. "I doubt
  anyone here could look so remarkable," he added with a smile.
  He offered his hand to hers, and she took it.
        "Well, Tom," Tago smiled, "I think you have matters here
  pretty much in control. Good day, Commander, Captain," he
  finished, leaving for the punch bowls.
        "Good day," Saavik replied politely, paying more
  attention to how well Riley looked in his dress uniform.
  Granted, he was notably uncomfortable, as was she, but he did
  look quite impressive. "I am supposed to meet with Ambassador
  Spock as soon as I arrived."
        Riley changed his pose, providing a more formal escort.
  "I saw him and Admiral Sulu near the stage," he explained. "I
  get the distinct impression that your mentor doesn't approve of
  me," he added.
        "He doesn't have to," Saavik replied, taking Riley's
  offered arm. "Be fortunate that I do," she added, giving a
  faint hint of a smile.
        They walked for a moment to the stage, not actually
  realizing that the people in attendance were literally making a
  path for them.
        "Captain Riley," Sulu eagerly offered. "I've heard a lot
  about you. Congradulations on your missions, and on your
  medals."
        Pleasant fellow, Riley confided in himself. "Thank you,
  Admiral. But to be honest, my crew should share the credit more
  than I."
        "Really?" Sulu smiled. "I think that you had more to do
  with it than you realize. Paula told me a lot about you, she
  had only good things to say."
        "Miss Grissom?" Riley asked, a bit quizzed by the remark.
  "That surpises me. I had been thinking that I'd done something
  in a past life." Riley pulled out the seat in front of him,
  letting Saavik rest from standing. "Actually, she did an
  excellent job against RAVEN and CLAW. I'm surprised you let us
  have her."
        "Well, I'm going to Star Fleet Academy as an instructor
  next month," Sulu admitted with a sorry look. "I'll be teaching
  navigation and tactics. Something about a little experience I
  had a few years ago. EXCELSIOR will be getting a whole new crew
  as a result."
        Riley smiled, pushing Saavik's seat gently under the
  table. "It seems congratulations are in order for you as well,"
  he commented. "And to you, Ambassador. I understand that you
  will be acting as special envoy to Romulus after these
  proceedings."
        Spock nodded. "I will. A peace with Romulus has been a
  life-long dream of mine, Captain," Spock answered cooly.
        "Really?" Riley finally took his own seat, sitting across
  from his date. "I have to admit that seems unlikely in the near
  future. Hard-liners are taking the helm again."
        "Indeed," Spock replied with a certain cold. "As
  evidenced with your encounters with the renegade Romulan fleet.
  But I am confident such a peace is possible, in time."
        Riley grimaced at that, knowing how difficult a struggle
  such a peace would be. "You have a long carreer ahead of you,
  Ambassador. I hope that it will be fruitful as well."
        Spock nodded in quiet agreement. "Tell me, Captain. Why
  did you forgo your training on Vulcan? Sonak informed me that
  you were one of his best students."
        Riley looked in disbelief, at least now he knew the
  source of Spock's apprehension. "You are direct, aren't you?"
  Riley muttered.
        "Very direct," Sulu smiled, "unless you ask him
  something, then he'll quote theory." Of course, Sulu's attempt
  at being light-hearted fell flat.
        Riley sipped on his tea, stealing a glance at Saavik who
  was already more than interested in the conversation. "I had
  difficulty shutting out emotions," he confessed. "After tree
  years, it was obvious that the path of Kohlinar was closed to
  me. Besides, I don't have Vulcan blood, and I believe that
  you know how difficult it is to be accepted there if you're
  not a true Vulcan."
        Spock drew in a breath, Riley's words were very sharp
  indeed. "True, Captain, I do understand. I was curious," Spock
  replied, revealing nothing.
        "Of course," Riley added, taking a large swallow of his
  own tea. "Curiousity is the path to knowledge," he completed,
  letting no more than his words cause injury.
        "Ladies and gentlemen and others of the room," a tall
  Malaysian Human began from on stage. "I hate to interrupt such
  a wonderful party, but unfortunately duty dictates that I had
  out three medals to the Federation's two newest heroes."
        There was a small bit of applause, and Riley felt his
  stomach churn. The big moment was about to arrive, his first
  public presentation of a medal.
        "Captain Thomas William Riley," Captain Heito continued
  upon the stage, "and Commander Saavik of Vulcan. Would you mind
  coming upon the stage for the presenation please?"
        Riley stood with Saavik, and the two walked to the stage
  for the formal ceremony. This time, however, they walked in
  military fashion, not touching except for when Riley helped her
  walk up the small set of stairs. If she weren't half-Vulcan,
  she'd have cursed the high-heels she was wearing.
        "Captain Riley, Commander Saavik," Heito spoke, "it is
  with great honor that I present the two of you each the
  gold cluster of valor." He presented two navy blue ring boxes
  from his pocket. He opened each and handed one to each of the
  two ENTERPRISE crewmen.
        "Also," Captain Heito continued, "to Captain Riley, the
  distinguished Arrowhead, the insignia of the Federation. This
  is for protecting our interests so valiantly."
        Riley took the medal in hand. "Thank you, Captain," he
  responded. After that Heito started the room's applause,
  somewhat embarrasing the two officers.
        "Spock," Sulu replied, smiling and clapping as much as he
  could, "You could have been easier on him, at least for her
  sake."
        Spock said nothing, keeping the words to himself. He did,
  however, applaud the both of them for their efforts.
 
  CHAPTER SEVEN
 
        Gahrut had been late, and the two of them were more than
  likely going to miss the entire ceremony. Not that the tought
  of missing seeing Riley and Saavik making puppy-dog-like
  expressions towards one another wasn't appealing, though she
  did want to congradulate her former Captain on his promotion
  to the Admiralty.
        "Look," Gahrut argued as Grissom's dress uniform
  seemed to cut into her a bit too tightly, "it isn't my fault
  that the traffic out of your complex was so tight. I told you
  to make reservations for the transporter pad, but no, you
  wouldn't listen to me."
        "Yeah," she snapped back, "you're the one who said he
  knew a short cut." Her face was genuinely upset now, she didn't
  want to miss Sulu before he accepted his new carreer. "You took
  us well into Oakland with your stupid directions."
        "Well," Gahrut muttered back, "at least you know why I'm
  not the navigator."
        The duo had wandered into the deepest parts of San
  Fransisco, a far cry from bayside. They weren't far from the
  hall, however, and at least they might make it on time.
        "Miss Grissom," someone called darkly from behind. Gahrut
  and she turned, but Grissom froze, unable to move, unable to
  act. "It's a pleasure to see you again. Is this your
  bodyguard?" the man questioned, indicating the Horta.
        "Who are you?" Gahrut asked in a confused voice, noting
  how quickly Grissom seemed to freak. But the intruder had been
  prepared, had been observing them for some time. In a swift
  move the shadowed figure raised his phaser at the Horta.
        "Okay, rock," the figure demanded, "One sound and the
  both of you are ash." He then fired, slamming into the Horta's
  armored hide. The rock form ceased its intricate movements.
        "No," Grissom panicked, stepping backwards. "Stay away
  from me. I got away from you," she pleaded. "You can't be
  here."
        "Ah, dear Paula," the figure daunted, "You can never
  truly get away from the one who loves you," he muttered, moving
  closer to her. "It's been so long since I've seen you. You've
  been in my dreams for so long. You are mine, and always will
  be, sweet, innocent, little Paula."
        She was shaking now, raising her phaser at him. "I'll
  shoot, I'm warning you," she shook nervously. All it would take
  was a flinch in the wrong direction.
        But he fired first, using the cutting beam against her
  hand. She cried out, pain ripping though her arm as the skin
  blackened on her hand. Instinctively, she dropped her phaser,
  and ran. Her adrenaline carried her far, but her tiny form was
  no match for the behemoth laying chase.
        He shoved her, face first, into a old brick wall. The
  grout ripped slightly into her skin, cauing intense pain. "Get
  away from me," she screamed. "Someone please help me."
        He forced her against the wall, not so carefully
  unzipping the back of her uniform. "No one can help you, no one
  cares. You're dealing with the dregs of society here, little
  miss."
        She struggled again, slapping him with her injured hand.
  She scratched into the side of his eye and he withdrew to cover
  the it. She took the opportunity to run again, desperately
  trying to activate her communicator.
        Quickly, though, the pain returned, another burn blast
  from her attacker's phaser ripped into her leg. She fell, pain
  overcoming her. "It's impolite to refuse a request from a
  superior, bitch," he commanded. "You're mine, don't you get it?
  I can do to you whatever it is I want. Right now, I want you."
        Grissom's face reddened, "You can't do this," she
  pleaded, even as he removed the belt from his uniform. "Don't
  do this to me again, please don't."
        He didn't listen.
 
  CHAPTER EIGHT
 
        Riley had to almost physically keep himself from kissing
  the beauty he held in his arms. He was already borderline with
  dancing with Saavik in front of the Admiralty, even though it
  was a celebatory party, but a kiss would be more than frowned
  upon.
        He remained content holding her warmth next to his own,
  realizing how comfortable it was to have her there. "I've never
  danced before," he admitted, looking deeply into her eyes. "I'm
  surprised I haven't stepped on your feet."
        "The night's still young," Saavik replied with a mostly
  hidden smile. "But I am confident that you are improving," she
  added, hugging tighter against him. "After all, practice always
  is for improvement."
        He gingerly stroked her back, memorizing every curve. He
  had never before been in this position. Granted, he'd slept
  with more than a few while on some missions in godforsaken
  hellplanets. But he never could say he loved a woman, he could
  never truthfully say that we wanted one above all others.
        The idea was at once frightening and exciting, a
  combination of emotions that Riley seemed to revel within. He
  looked into her eyes once more, seeing the beauty of them, and
  then dared to look inside them, beyond into the soul.
        Saavik realized what was happening as he started. It was
  obvious that he didn't intend harm, and she let him in. Their
  minds touched as their bodies danced together. Images of
  realities gone by swept through, revealing dreams and passions
  long forgotten.
        In this union, the two half-worlders sought each-other.
  There was no logic to this place, no reason, only pure,
  unbridled emotion. They carressed in this place, gingerly
  exploring one-another with child-like curiosity.
        But there was another in this mind-reality. A tall
  blondish man wearing a scientist's uniform appeared, looking
  hurt and betrayed. Saavik withdrew from Riley, looking and
  apologizing to the figure whom had emerged from some forgotten
  past memory.
        "David," Riley said softly, reasserting the two of them
  into the dance's reality. "I'm sorry, I shouldn't have done
  that," he added.
        "It was enjoyable," Saavik confessed for a moment with a
  sad look across her face, "for a time. I wasn't aware you could
  do that, I wasn't prepared."
        "Nor was I," Riley admitted. "I've never wanted to
  before," he added, noting Saavik's confused look. "But it's
  wrong of me to push. I just never knew how empty I had been.
  And now I can't help my desires." Riley's communicator chriped,
  irratating him somewhat as it destroyed the moment.
        "There will be time, Thomas," Saavik answered, reassuming
  her emotionless facade for the room's benefit. "We have a long
  tour ahead of us. We'll both have a chance to be ready."
        Again, the communicator chirped. "I know," he softly
  replied. "I'm just very new at this," he confessed.
        The communicator beeped for the third time, and it was
  obvious that it wasn't going to disappear. "Excuse me," he
  offered to Saavik as he regretfully let go of her. "Riley here,
  this better be good."
        "It's not, sir," R'Ress replied through the pin.
  "Doctor Matthews is here. Something's happened to Paula," he
  continued, wavering.
        "Explain," Riley demanded, "Doctor, what's going on?"
        "I'm sorry to interrupt, Captain," Matthews voice came
  over the communicator, "But Grissom's been attacked. She's in
  Bayside, in critical condition."
        Riley's eyes widened, hardly the news he had expected to
  hear. "Get over there as soon as you can. Saavik and I will
  be on our way directly."
        "Yes, sir," Matthews replied.
        "Get security on her door, noone goes in without proper
  authorization," Riley saw fit to add, motioning to Tago, who
  was trying miserably to mix it up with some of the ladyfolk.
        Tago came over, to the delight of the ladies he left
  behind. "Leaving so soon? I thought the party was going well,"
  he protested.
        But there was something different in Riley's eyes this
  time. Tago recognized it, Riley was on business once more. "We
  need a ride to Bayview Hospital. And get my rifle from my
  apartment."
 
  CHAPTER NINE
 
        Riley stood at the foot of Gahrut's bed. He noted the
  giant blisters on his Lieutenant's armored hide, and wished
  that there was something he could do to help. But there wasn't,
  all he could do was try to find out what happened. "Tell me,"
  Riley commaned softly to the Horta's damaged form.
        "It didn't know what hit me, Captain," Gahrut moaned. "I
  asked who it was, and he fired at me. I didn't have a chance to
  react." Gahrut was still slowly leaking fluid, the makeshift
  silicon patches were having difficulty holding him.
        "What do you remember?" Riley tried, staying as
  matter-of-factly as he could. "Did you get a look at him?"
        "He was in shadows," Gahrut replied. "It looked like he
  was wearing a Star Fleet uniform, but it was to dark to see
  anything visually. From his heat pattern, I'd say he was a
  human, but I can't be any more specific."
        Well, that narrows it down to six billion, Riley fumed to
  himself. "Has Paula ever asked you to escort her to places
  before?"
        "A few times, sir," Gahrut strained. "She was usually
  tripped out about someone when she'd ask."
        "Tripped out?" Riley responded with interest.
        Gahrut shifted somewhat, exposing more of his uninjured
  areas. "Yeah, she'd be scared of guys. It'd usually happen
  after someone hit on her and wouldn't take 'no'. I'd walk her
  to her quarters and that would be it."
        "Has she ever carried a phaser in public before?" Riley
  asked flatly.
        "Never to my knowledge, sir," Gahrut asked. "Why do you
  ask?" Gahrut was concered, something terrible had to be going
  on, and he felt responsible.
        "Security force recovered a phaser from a streetman who
  tried to sell it from there," Riley explained. "It was issued
  to the ENTERPRISE."
        Gahrut was taken aback. "Sir, no one's told me. What
  happened to her? What's going on?"
        Riley paused for a moment. There was no way to smooth out
  the harshness of the news. There was no way to sugar-coat it.
  "She was raped, Lieutenant."
        "No," Gahrut trailed. "No," he said again, his voice
  breaking under the emotional deluge.
        Riley gently tapped the rocky form on the bed. "It's not
  your fault, Gahrut. You did what you could."
        Gahrut didn't reply. Sadness and guilt consumed him.
  Riley waited for several seconds, trying to find more words to
  ease the pain. There were none. He quietly left to the
  hospital's large cooridor where Matthews and Saavik had been
  waiting for him.
        "I told him," Riley admitted with regret. "He didn't
  take it well, but I can't say that I blame him."
        "He needed to know, Captain," Matthews replied, his mood
  not lightened. "It's not going to be easy. Security's got no
  leads yet."
        "You mean there were no clues left behind?" Riley
  demanded, upset by the assertation.
        Matthews sighed. "The doctors here said that she was
  clean of usable evidence," he explained mornfully.
        "No semen samples?" Riley queried.
        "The assailant failed to climax," Matthews responded. "It
  isn't uncommon. Generally, rape is a crime of agression or
  domination, and not sex."
        Riley nodded, understanding all to well. "So, whoever did
  this, didn't leave traces of himself behind? That's a bit
  unlikely, don't you think?" He was frustrated now, wanting to
  do more, wanting to have a target for his agression.
        "Well, there are genetic traces from several individuals
  on her," Matthews offered. "It isn't conclusive as yet. Whoever
  did this took some great pains to ensure that they wouldn't be
  easily caught."
        "Of course," Riley muttered with distaste. "When Paula
  comes to, I'll need to ask her some questions. Will that be
  alright by you?"
        "No," Matthews protested lightly. "She'll be in shock for
  a while. Maybe in a couple of days, when she's more relaxed.
  But she'll need time to recover."
        "In a couple of days, Doctor," Riley retorted, "the
  bastard could be half-way to the Neutral Zone. I want him, and
  I want him as soon as I can have him. Is that understood?"
        Matthews grimaced, knowing that Riley was barely managing
  his temper. "I'll see what I can do, but I can't promise that
  she'll be receptive. We're dealing with a deep psychosis here,
  Captain."
        "And a deep psychotic," Riley countered. His patience was
  wearing extremely thin.
        "There's more, Captain," Matthews continued cautiously.
  "Judging by her past injuries, I'd say that this has happened
  once before."
        Riley fell silent, sitting down on a nearby chair as if
  the strength had been sapped from him. "Before? Her hatred of
  men, it came from a rape?" he asked tiredly.
        "It is consistant with common cases," Matthews replied.
  "The victim will associate all men as threats, particularly
  those with authority over her."
        "And she has been afraid of you, Thomas," Saavik
  commented. "She was afraid with no logical reason, citing a
  psychomatic, or phobic, reaction."
        "Jesus," Riley muttered distantly. "Is it possible," he
  slowly began. "Is it possible that the rapes were by the same
  person?"
        "Rare," Matthews commented, "but definately possible.
  Once someone has asserted his dominance, he may wish to
  continue it."
        "You suspect a connection, Captain?" Saavik asked as the
  Captain stood up. "There is no evidence to support such a
  claim at this time."
        "No evidence," Riley muttered. "That's why I need to
  question Paula as soon as I can."
 
  CHAPTER TEN
 
        The fact the Saavik had, for that night, decided to
  accompany Riley would have been more appealing if Riley's mind
  hadn't been so pressed on Grissom's case.
        The two were in his apartment now, studying over records
  and reports about Grissom from over the past six years. Riley
  was determined to find something, anything, that could give
  clues.
        Saavik watched him with a sense of wonder. Riley was,
  perhaps even more that she, comprised of two distinct sides.
  Sometimes Riley was the soft and caring companion she had been
  seeking, and at other times he was he stern and determined
  Captain she respected.
        He was almost two different people, and she decided that
  she was in love with them both. "Thomas," she began, looking
  through her makeshift terminal's records, "You have been
  looking over her files for over three hours. You do need some
  rest at some point."
        "Not now," he replied, turning to her. "One of my crew's
  been attacked, and I want the bastard that did it."
        "I understand," she offered. "I am concerned about you,
  and your sudden shift in behavior. I appreciate that it is
  largely an emotional concern."
        Riley lightly bit his lower lip, reaching out for her
  hand. "If it is a Star Fleet officer, he's going to be gone
  as soon as his ship is ready to disembark. I've got to get
  through this bureaucratic mess to get some answers."
        Saavik gently accepted the offered hand. "Personell files
  of the EXCELSIOR?" she quizzed when she looked over his
  shoulder into his monitor.
        "Yeah," Riley explained. "It was her last assignment
  before the ENTEPRISE. Sulu's ship is in drydock, so her crew is
  planetside along with us." Riley tumbled through record after
  record, looking for descrepancies or conduct reprimands.
        "If you don't find anything there?" Saavik asked
  curiously. "Where will you look?"
        "Then I will look through the ACUTIS's files," he said,
  suddenly taken by realization. "Grissom got defensive last time
  I brought up the ACUTIS with her," he trailed.
        "Defensive?" Saavik asked with her trademark raised
  eyebrow. "When did you bring it up with her?"
        "When I was looking for Romulan spies," Riley answered
  cooly. "She had abruptly transferred from ACUTIS to EXCELSIOR
  for no apparant reason. When I asked about it, she tensed up in
  a major way."
        "Someone on the ACUTIS then?" Saavik pondered, punching
  up the data on her own terminal. "Some of higher rank than she,
  then?"
        "Everyone was higher rank than she was," Riley reminded
  her. "But it was someone in charge of her, I'd imagine. Someone
  she was too afraid to report or fight back."
        "Apparantly," Saavik commented as the new data flooded
  her screen, "she wasn't the only one. There have been six
  abrupt personnel transferrs from the ACUTIS in the past seven
  years. No explanation was given, though they were all approved.
  All six of the cases involved human females with an ensign
  rank," she explained. "Of them, three of which are still in
  service. Lieutenant Kala Marshall aboard the CUTLASS,
  Lieutenant Janis Oyoto aboard the BEHEMOTH, and Lieutenant
  Commander Tierra Washington of Star Fleet Command."
        Riley cracked a small grin, he had gotten what he wanted.
  "What of the other three? Where are they now?"
        "Former Ensign Lea Thomas has retired and is living in
  Bonn, Germany. Former Lieutenant Mary Quix is living in Mexico
  City. Former Ensign Uteo Jasala was killed in a shuttlecraft
  accident two years ago," Saavik answered flatly.
        "Get their detailed adresses and hand them to me," Riley
  ordered. "I'll talk to them about their experience," he
  explained. "I need you to talk to Paula when she's ready."
        "I understand, sir," Saavik countered as Riley sipped on
  his Mister Pibb that Tago had so politely brought him a few
  moments before.
        Riley raised Saavik's capture hand to his lips and gently
  kissed it. "Thanks for putting up with me during this, Saavik.
  I know I should be spending more time with you instead."
        "No you shouldn't," Saavik countered. "You are showing
  your repsonsibility as captain of the ENTERPRISE. I cannot
  fault you for that."
        And for the seventh time that day, Riley seemed to have
  run out of words. He quietly took the list that had been
  printed out, and headed for the door.
 
        She slept, knowing of the world around her but helpless
  to take part in it. Her body lay still, unmoving, unwilling to
  move. There is nothing but pain in the world, she told herself,
  it is better to retreat to within.
        But she was cared for in the world, by one completely
  alien to her. She could see him off the side of her bed, his
  injured rocky skin covered by makeshift patches. He was in
  pain, yet he made his way to see her.
        How could she know, he thought to himself, just how much
  I want to hold her. Could she know how much I curse the fact
  that I don't have hands to hold hers, eyes to meet hers, or
  even lips to kiss hers.
        And she still looked at him, for once finally
  comprehendinng his feelings for her all this time. She had
  attached to him because she thought him harmless. They had
  served together for six years on three starships, and had been
  through battles and peace and had struggled through it all.
        They had always been together, she realized during these
  moments. He had been closer to me than anyone in the worlds.
  How could I have been so blind, Gahrut? she asked, though her
  lips refused to say the words.
        But her hand moved, slowly over to the Horta's injured
  body. Carefully, she carressed his hide. This mismatched pair
  had been through so much, and there still would be so much to
  go through. He would help her through this suffering. She could
  tell him, if only she could speak.
 
 

-- 

"Our crew's living quarters have left the ship."
			- Secundam Yto aboard the IRON CLAW II
Neale Davidson, another writer wanna-be. neale@mentor.cc.purdue.edu

