

                            ANS Acceptable Use Policy

          Preamble


               Advanced Network & Services, Inc.  ("ANS")  is  a  not-
          for-profit corporation dedicated to the advancement for edu-
          cation and research in the interest  of  improving  competi-
          tiveness  and  productivity  in the global economic environ-
          ment.  Accordingly,  ANS'  objectives  are  to  help  expand
          access   to   and   interchange  of  information  technology
          resources among academic,  government  and  industry  users,
          provide   state-of-the-art  high  speed  data  networks  and
          related services, engage in related research and development
          work,  and  improve the ways that information is created and
          used for education and research purposes.  ANS aims to  sup-
          port  the  academic and research communities, enhance educa-
          tion and research at all levels, and contribute to improving
          the quality of education and research.


               Organizations using ANS services will directly  benefit
          if  ANS  services and facilities are used in ways which will
          build overall system efficiencies, maximize the  accessibil-
          ity  of the system, and minimize or eliminate unimportant or
          improper traffic over the systems.   ANS  will  be  able  to
          provide  better  service for User Organizations if a reason-
          able Acceptable  Use  Policy  is  adopted,  promulgated  and
          applied by ANS and all User Organizations.


          The Policy


          (1)  All use of ANS network services shall  be  intended  to
               facilitate  the  exchange of information in furtherance
               of education and research, and otherwise be  consistent
               with the broad objectives of ANS.


          (2)  Users of ANS network services shall  promote  efficient
               use of the networks to minimize, and avoid if possible,
               congestion of the networks and  interference  with  the
               work of other users of the networks.


          (3)  Users of ANS network services shall not disrupt any  of
               the  ANS networks as a whole or any equipment or system
               forming part of its systems, or any  services  provided
               over, or in connection with, any of the ANS networks.


          (4)  ANS networks shall not be used to transmit any communi-
               cation  where  the  meaning  of  the  message,  or  its
               transmission or distribution, would violate any  appli-
               cable  law  or  regulation  or  would  likely be highly
               offensive to the recipient or recipients thereof.


          (5)  ANS networks shall not be used for commercial purposes.
               However,  if  a use is consistent with the purposes and
               objectives of ANS, then commercial activities  in  sup-
               port  of  that use will be considered an acceptable use
               of the network.


          (6)  Advertising of commercial offerings is forbidden.  Dis-
               cussion  of  a product's relative advantages and disad-
               vantages by users of the product is  encouraged.   Ven-
               dors  may  respond to questions about their products as
               long as the responses are not in the nature  of  adver-
               tisting.


          (7)  Interpretation,  application, and possible modification
               of this Acceptable User Policy shall be within the sole
               discretion of ANS.  Questions about any  issue  arising
               under  this  Policy  should  be directed to ANS by User
               Organizations when an issue first arises.

