[An updated version of this document can be had by anonymous ftp from
 NIC.CERF.NET ]

Purpose of CERFnet

The purpose of the California Education and Research Federation is 
to advance research and education in general by assisting in the 
interchange of information among research and educational 
institutions by means of high speed data communications and related 
telecommunications techniques.



CERFnet - ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY  

This statement represents a guide to the acceptable use of the CERFnet
facilities. 

(1)	All use must be consistent with the purpose of CERFnet. 

(2)	The intent of the use policy is to make clear certain cases which are
consistent with the purpose of CERFnet, not to exhaustively enumerate all such
possible uses. 

(3)	The Chairperson of CERFnet and his designees, may at any time make
determinations that particular uses are or are not consistent with the purpose
of  CERFnet .  Such determinations will be reported in writing to the Board of
CERFnet for consideration and possible revision at the next meeting of the
board. 

(4)	If a use is consistent with the purpose of CERFnet, then activities
necessary to that use will be considered consistent with the purpose of
CERFnet.  For example, administrative communications which are part of the
support infrastructure needed for research and instruction are acceptable. 

(5)	Use for scholarly and scientific research or instruction at
institutions of research or instruction is acceptable. 

(6)	Use for a project which is part of or supports scholarly and scientific
research or instruction activity for the benefit of an institution of research
or instruction is acceptable, even if any or all parties to the use are located
or employed elsewhere.  For example, communications directly between
Subscribers engaged in support of a project for such an institution is
acceptable. 

(7)	Use for scholarly and scientific research or instruction at for-profit
institutions may or may not be consistent with the purpose of CERFnet, and will
be reviewed by the Chairperson or his designees on a case-by-case basis. 

Adopted May 12, 1988 
CERFnet Board of Directors   
Ref:1-16-89I


