






                    OPERATIONAL POLICIES FOR INTERNET NET 128.109
                                         and
                                 THE CONCERT NETWORK



          I.   Introduction.

            Our local  Internet network,  128.109,  is  connected   to   NC
            campuses,   government   labs,  and  companies  via the CONCERT
            Network by routers (mostly cisco) and by a few ethernet level 2
            bridges.   It   is  then   gatewayed  at  the  CONCERT  NOC  to
            ANS/NSFNET.  On  the subnet 193  ethernet is a gateway  on  the
            national  backbone.  External routing  is  under  the   control
            of  routing daemons on the backbone gateway.

            The  policies  stated  herein are  directed  only   to   hosts,
            gateways,   servers,   etc.  that  are capable of  sending  and
            receiving IP and ARP packets and of routing IP packets  to  the
            subnet 193 ethernet.

            Local IP subnet administrators must  realize that  their  local
            ethernets  are  just as  much a part of the Internet  as is the
            DDN Networks  or the ANS/NSFNET  backbone.   What  appears   on
            the local ethernet can and may  be transmitted across the coun-
            try and may do immense damage along  the way.   When an offend-
            ing  node   or  network  is identified,  various Network Opera-
            tions Centers  (NOCs)  start  a  defined  procedure  to   solve
            the  problem.      Procedures    range    from    advising  the
            local administrator to fix  the problem to  immediate   discon-
            nect  of  the  offending node.  In no case are problems ignored
            for very long and  the severity of  the action  is in  relation
            to the seriousness of the event.   Because we (network 128.109)
            must be responsible  participants in the  Internet and  because
            we  have  had serious problems,  it is necessary that we  main-
            tain policies and procedures in the operation of our network.


          II.  CONCERT Network Operations Center.

            NSFNET has  recommended that regional and state   networks  set
            up  a  Network Operations  Center for coordination, monitoring,
            and management of Internet traffic and  activities.  The   CON-
            CERT   NOC   as   described  herein is modeled after other NOCs
            and is comprised of those persons at the  MCNC    Center    for
            Communications    responsible    for  maintaining   the   local
            Internet   and  its  gateways   and interfaces  to   the   out-
            side  world.   These  people  must ensure that  our  ANS/NSFNET
            facilities  do   not  disrupt  the national   nets   and   that
            we    maintain   good   connectivity to  the  Internet  for all
            statewide users.  CONCERT will not make   unreasonable  demands
            upon   local  subnet administrators but  cooperation  is needed
            and local  subnet administrators must be  responsive   to   our













            requests.     When  problems  arise  we  will  advise the local
            administrator while we  attempt  to  filter  offenders  at  the
            bridges  where  possible.  However,  in severe cases it may  be
            necessary to shut down links in  order  to  clear  the  problem
            until   the  local  problem  is  located.    In  general,   any
            host/subnet  generating bogus  packets  that  make  their   way
            onto   the  Internet  or  cause  disruption  of routing on  our
            local  network  will be  cause  for  immediate  action  against
            the offending host/subnet.


          III. Local Network Administrator.

            Every local  subnet (128.109.X)   must have  appointed  an   IP
            subnet   administrator   registered   at  the  CONCERT  Network
            Operations   Center   (NOC).       Send   mail    to    subnet-
            reg@concert.net   to   register  an  administrator   or  change
            registration.  (An alternate may be advantageous.)   The  local
            network   administrator   will  be the  person  contacted  when
            problems arise  with that particular local   subnetwork.    The
            administrator  will   be expected  to respond  with appropriate
            priority.   Registration should include  telephone  number  and
            mailbox.   A   US  mail addresses is desired also.  This person
            should be reachable during normal business hours.    If  it  is
            important  that  your local subnet maintain connectivity nights
            and  weekends,   then  provide a contact procedure for  use  at
            such times.


          IV.  Host Registration.

            The CONCERT NOC maintains a registry of  TCP/IP   hosts  within
            the network on ncnoc.concert.net.  Subnet-administrators should
            ensure that their hosts are included as changes  and  additions
            are made.  Registration should  include host name,  host  type,
            IP  address,  and  ethernet address.  To register  hosts,  send
            mail to host-reg@concert.net.


          V.   Connecting New Hosts.

            The  NOC   requests  that  all  local   subnet   administrators
            advise  the  NOC  of connection of new devices that participate
            in the Internet, including gateways and  servers of  any  type,
            prior   to  connecting  such  devices.    In addition,   it  is
            recommended that packets from such devices be filtered  by  the
            appropriate  gateways  and/or bridges until proper operation is
            verified.   For new devices,   notification should include host
            name,  host  type,  IP address,  and ethernet address.   Advise
            the NOC via mail to host-reg@concert.net.


          VI.  Technical Assistance.













            In  order to  assist the  local IP  subnet  administrators   in
            maintaining    proper    network  configuration   and   routing
            information,  the CONCERT  personnel  will  provide   a   basic
            technical   guide   on  how  to   set  up  a  host/gateway  for
            connection to the local  network.   Subnet  administrators  may
            request  assistance   with network problems by  addressing mail
            to help@concert.net.


          VII. Subnet Assignments.

            Subnet  numbers (128.109.X)   are assigned  by the  NOC.   Send
            requests  for  new subnets  to subnet-reg@concert.net.   Please
            understand that Internet address space is  a  limited  quantity
            and  be  prepared to provide justification  for your needs.  At
            the  same  time  the  CONCERT  NOC  is  prepared   to   provide
            addressing to meet those needs.


          VIII. Reporting Problems.

            To report  problems  with network operation or  other  abnormal
            network  events,  send  mail  to  trouble@concert.net.  Persons
            on this list  have various responsibilities  that  collectively
            insure  that   any situation  that might  occur will get prompt
            attention.  The CONCERT NOC can be reached at 919-248-1111.


          IX. Network Use Policy

            The CONCERT Network supports  use policies in  accordance  with
            its   supplier  of Internet connectivity and will enforce those
            policies to the  best of its ability.  Intra-CONCERT   use   is
            generally  less restrictive  but  CONCERT  supports those  ele-
            ments  of  Internet  policy  that  demand    network  etiquette
            and  due consideration for user's rights to  privacy and  free-
            dom  from  exposure to  offensive  material.   Internet  policy
            is    contained     in    two    documents     available   from
            ncnoc.concert.net, NSFNET.policy and ANSNET.policy.



          This  document is  available  from the  NOC  via  anonymous  FTP.
          To  obtain a copy, FTP to NCNOC.CONCERT.NET  with login=anonymous
          and password=guest  and  change  to   the  directory  doc.    Get
          file  CONCERT.policy  or  CONCERT.policy.ps.   Other  information
          on  IP networking  is  also available from host ncnoc.



          Revised 2/1/91.

9

9



