Xref: blister news.lists:181 news.groups:7459 news.announce.newusers:64
Path: blister!jtsv16!torsqnt!news-server.csri.toronto.edu!rpi!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!samsung!news.cs.indiana.edu!purdue!spaf
From: spaf@cs.purdue.EDU (Gene Spafford)
Newsgroups: news.lists,news.groups,news.announce.newusers
Subject: Alternative Newsgroup Hierarchies
Summary: describes the following alternate hierarchies: alt, bionet,
    bit, biz, clarinet, gnu, ieee, inet/ddn, K12, u3b, vmsnet
Message-ID: <15403@ector.cs.purdue.edu>
Date: 25 Jul 91 23:16:01 GMT
Expires: 23 Oct 91 23:16:01 GMT
Followup-To: news.lists
Organization: Dept. of Computer Sciences, Purdue Univ.
Lines: 886
Approved: spaf@cs.purdue.EDU
Supersedes: <14699@ector.cs.purdue.edu>

Original-from: hoptoad!gnu (John Gilmore) and spaf@purdue.edu (Gene Spafford)
[Most recent change: 23 Jul 1991 by spaf@cs.purdue.edu (Gene Spafford)]

Introduction
------------
The Usenet software allows the support and transport of hierarchies of
newsgroups not part of the "traditional" Usenet through use of the
distribution mechanism. These hierarchies of groups are available to
sites wishing to support them and finding a feed.  In general, these
groups are not carried by the entire network because of their volume,
restricted spheres of interest, or a different set of administrative
rules and concerns.

In general, it is a bad idea to forward these newsgroups to your
neighbors without asking them first; they should only be received at a
site by choice.  Not only is this generally-accepted net etiquette, it
helps to preserve the freedom to do and say as the posters please in
these newsgroups, as the only people who get them are those who asked
to get them.  This freedom is more restricted in the Usenet as a
whole, because every mainstream posting and every mainstream newsgroup
name must be acceptable to a much wider audience than is present in
these hierarchies.  Because of the sheer size of the mainstream
Usenet, extra-long or controversial postings are more likely to cause
problems when posted to the Usenet; however, these alternative
hierarchies exist precisely to support those kinds of postings (if
germane to the hierarchy).

Usually, there is is no restriction on getting these groups as long
as you have the capacity to receive, store, and forward the groups;
2.10.3 or 2.11 news is required to make the distribution mechanism
work properly for these groups.  How to join each distribution is
described below.

Note that the "uunet" service carries all of these hierarchies.
Contact uunet!uunet-request for subscription details.

Also note -- the lists in this article are totally unofficial and
possibly incomplete or inaccurate.  I try to keep the lists up-to-date,
but make no guarantee that any of the information contained corresponds
with the named groups in any significant way.  Corrections and comments
should be mailed directly to me.

Alt
---
"alt" is a collection of newsgroups which are being distributed
by a collection of sites that choose to carry them.  Many Usenet sites
are not interested in these groups.  Here is a recent list
of the 'alt" newsgroups:

alt.activism		Activities for activists.
alt.activism.d		A place to discuss issues in alt.activism.
alt.alien.visitors	??
alt.angst		Anxiety in the modern world.
alt.aquaria		The aquarium & related as a hobby.
alt.artcom		Artistic Community, arts & communication.
alt.atheism		Discussions of atheism.
alt.backrubs		Lower...to the right...aaaah!
alt.bbs			Computer BBS systems & software.
alt.bbs.ads		Ads for various computer BBS's.
alt.bbs.internet	BBS systems accessible via the Internet.
alt.bbs.lists		Postings of regional BBS listings.
alt.bbs.lists.d		Discussion about regional BBS listings.
alt.bbs.waffle		The Waffle UUCP BBS.
alt.binaries.multimedia Sound, text and graphics data rolled in one.
alt.binaries.pictures	Additional volume in the form of huge image files.
alt.binaries.pictures.d	Discussion of postings to alt.binaries.pictures.
alt.books.technical	Discussion of technical books.
alt.boomerang		Technology and use of the boomerang.
alt.brother-jed		The born-again minister touring US campuses.
alt.california		The state and the state of mind.
alt.callahans		Callahan's bar for puns and fellowship.
alt.cd-rom		Discussions of optical storage media.
alt.censorship		Discussion about restricting speech/press.
alt.child-support	Raising children in a split family.
alt.co-ops		Discussion about co-operatives.
alt.cobol		Use of the programming language COBOL.
alt.comp.acad-freedom.news      Academic freedom issues related to computers. (Moderated)
alt.comp.acad-freedom.talk      Academic freedom issues related to computers.
alt.config		Alternative subnet discussions and connectivity.
alt.conspiracy		Be paranoid -- they're out to get you.
alt.cosuard		Council of Sysops & Users Against Rate Discrimination.
alt.cult-movies		Movies with a cult following (e.g., Rocky Horror PS).
alt.cyb-sys		Cybernetics and Systems.
alt.cyberpunk		High-tech low-life.
alt.cyberpunk.chatsubo	Literary virtual reality in a cyberpunk hangout.
alt.cyberpunk.movement	Cybernizing the Universe.
alt.cyberpunk.tech	Cyberspace and Cyberpunk technology.
alt.cyberspace		Cyberspace and how it should work.
alt.dcom.telecom	Discussion of telecommunications technology.
alt.desert-shield	Events in the Middle East, esp. Kuwait.
alt.desert-storm	The war against Iraq in Kuwait.
alt.desert-storm.facts	For factual information on The Gulf War.
alt.desert-thekurds	What's happening to the Kurds in Iraq.
alt.dev.null		The ultimate in moderated newsgroups. (Moderated)
alt.dreams		What do they mean?
alt.drugs		Recreational pharmaceuticals and related flames.
alt.emusic		Ethnic, exotic, electronic, elaborate, etc. music. *
alt.exotic-music	Exotic music discussions. *
alt.fan.dave_barry	Electronic fan club for humorist Dave Barry.
alt.fan.dice-man	Fans of Andrew Dice Clay.
alt.fan.furry		Fans of funny animals, ala Steve Gallacci's book.
alt.fan.howard-stern	Fans of the abrasive radio & TV personality.
alt.fan.mike-jittlov	Electronic fan club for animator Mike Jittlov.
alt.fan.monty-python	Electronic fan club for those wacky Brits.
alt.fan.rush-limbaugh	Fans of the Rush Limbaugh radio talk show.
alt.fan.warlord         Mocking net.gods and net.weenies.
alt.fandom.cons		Announcements of conventions (SciFi and others).
alt.fandom.misc		Other topics for fans of various kinds.
alt.fishing		Fishing as a hobby and sport.
alt.flame		Alternative, literate, pithy, succinct screaming.
alt.flame.spelling	Fore piple whoe kant spel.
alt.folklore.computers	Stories & anecdotes about computers (some true!).
alt.folklore.urban	Urban legends, ala Jan Harold Brunvand.
alt.forgery		One place for all forgeries--crossposting encouraged.
alt.fractals		Fractals in math, graphics, and art.
alt.games.gb		The Galactic Bloodshed conquest game.
alt.gourmand		Recipes & cooking info. (Moderated)
alt.graphics.pixutils	Discussion of pixmap utilities.
alt.great-lakes		Discussions of the Great Lakes and adjacent places.
alt.hackers		Descriptions of projects currently under development. (Moderated)
alt.horror		The horror genre.
alt.humor.oracle	The semi-legendary Usenet Oracle speaks.
alt.hypertext		Discussion of hypertext -- uses, transport, etc.
alt.individualism	Philosophies where individual rights are paramount.
alt.industrial          The Industrial Computing Society.
alt.irc			Internet Relay Chat material.
alt.kids-talk		A place for the pre-college set on the net.
alt.lang.asm            Assembly languages of various flavours.
alt.lang.cfutures	Discussion of the future of the C programming language
alt.lang.intercal	A joke language with a real compiler.
alt.lang.ml             The ML and SML symbolic languages.
alt.lang.teco		The TECO editor language.
alt.magic		For discussion about stage magic.
alt.magick              For discussion about supernatural arts.
alt.models		Model building, design, etc.
alt.msdos.programmer	For the serious MS/DOS programmer (no forsale ads).
alt.native		Issues for and about native Americans.
alt.pagan		Discussions about paganism & religion.
alt.paranormal		Phenomena which are not scientifically explicable.
alt.party		Parties, celebration and general debauchery.
alt.peeves		Discussion of peeves & related.
alt.personals		Geek seeks Dweeb. Object: low-level interfacing.
alt.politics.homosexuality	   As the name implies
alt.postmodern		Postmodernism, semiotics, deconstruction, and the like.
alt.privacy             Privacy issues in cyberspace.
alt.prose		Postings of original writings, fictional & otherwise.
alt.prose.d		Discussions about postings in alt.prose.
alt.rap                 For fans of rap music.
alt.rap-gdead		Fans of The Grateful Dead and Rap.  Really.
alt.recovery		For people in recovery programs (e.g., AA, ACA, GA).
alt.religion.computers	People who believe computing is "real life."
alt.restaurants		Discussion of nifty places to eat.
alt.rhode_island	Discussion of the great little state.
alt.rissa		Fans (and otherwise) of Patricia O'Tuama.
alt.rmgroup		For the people who like to rmgroup/newgroup things.
alt.rock-n-roll		Counterpart to alt.sex and alt.drugs.
alt.rock-n-roll.metal	For the headbangers on the net.
alt.rock-n-roll.metal.heavy     Non-sissyboy metal bands.
alt.romance		Discussion about the romantic side of love.
alt.rush-limbaugh       Fans of the conservative activist radio announcer.
alt.save.the.earth      Environmentalist causes.
alt.sci.astro.fits      Technical matters of Flexible Image Transport Systems.
alt.security		Security issues on computer systems.
alt.security.index	Pointers to good stuff in alt.security. (Moderated)
alt.sewing		Working with needle and thread.
alt.sex			Postings of a prurient nature.
alt.sex.bestiality	Happiness is a warm puppy.
alt.sex.bondage		Tie me, whip me, make me read the net!
alt.sex.motss           Jesse Helms would not subscribe to this group.
alt.sex.pictures	Gigabytes of copyright violations.
alt.sex.pictures.d	Discussing alt.sex.pictures copyright violations.
alt.skate		Rollerskating and skateboarding.
alt.skinheads		The skinhead culture/anti-culture.
alt.slack		Posting relating to the Church of the Subgenius.
alt.snowmobiles         High-horsepower sleds in the powder.
alt.society.ati		The Activist Times Digest.  (Moderated)
alt.society.cu-digest	Postings about the Computer Underground. (Moderated)
alt.sources		Alternative source code, unmoderated. Caveat Emptor.
alt.sources.amiga	Technically-oriented Amiga PC sources.
alt.sources.d		Discussion of posted sources.
alt.sources.index	Pointers to source code in alt.sources.*. (Moderated)
alt.sources.patches	Reposted patches from non-bugs groups.
alt.sources.wanted	Requests for source code.
alt.sport.bungee	Like alt.suicide with rubber bands.
alt.sport.paintball	The game/art/sport of splatball.
alt.startrek.creative	Stories and parodies related to Star Trek.
alt.stupidity		Discussion about stupid newsgroups.
alt.suicide.holiday	Talk of why suicides increase at holidays.
alt.support		Dealing with emotional situations & experiences.
alt.surfing		Riding the ocean waves.
alt.sys.amiga.demos     Code and talk to show off the Amiga.
alt.sys.amiga.uucp	AmigaUUCP.
alt.sys.amiga.uucp.patches	Patches for AmigaUUCP.
alt.sys.intergraph      Support for Intergraph machines.
alt.sys.sun		Technical discussion of Sun Microsystems products.
alt.sys.unisys		Burroughs, Sperry, CT, etc. discussions.
alt.tasteless		Truly disgusting.
alt.tennis		The game & sport of tennis.
alt.test		Alternative subnetwork testing.
alt.text.dwb		Discussion of the AT&T Documenter's WorkBench.
alt.thrash		Skateboards and thrashlife.
alt.toolkits.xview	The X windows XView toolkit.
alt.tv.antagonists	Fans of the new "The Antagonists" TV show.
alt.tv.muppets		Fans of the Muppets, TV shows & movies.
alt.tv.prisoner		The Prisoner television series from years ago.
alt.tv.simpsons		Don't have a cow, man!
alt.tv.tiny-toon	Dicussion about the "Tiny Toon Adventures" show.
alt.tv.twin-peaks	Discussion about the popular (and unusual) TV show.
alt.usage.english	English grammar, word usages, and related topics.

Submissions to the moderated alt.gourmand group should be mailed to
recipes@decwrl.dec.com (Brian Reid).  alt.society.cu-digest
submissions should be mailed to tk0jut2@niu.bitnet or
cud@chinacat.unicom.com (Jim Thomas and Gordon Meyer).

* alt.emusic and alt.exotic-music are aliased together at many sites.

You can join the "alt subnet" by finding a site in your area that
carries the groups.  Either send mail to the administrators of the
sites you connect to, or post something to a local "general" or
"wanted" newsgroup for your area .  If no sites nearby are getting
them, you can get them from uunet.

Bionet
------
There is a newsgroup hierarchy for topics interesting to biologists
called "bionet" originating from genbank.bio.net and carried on a growing
number of machines including rutgers, phri, mit-eddie, ukma, and all
of the machines at UCSD.  Contact Eliot Lear <usenet@genbank.bio.net> for
more details.  The current newsgroup list looks like this:

bionet.agroforestry		Discussion of Agroforestry.
bionet.biology.computational	Computer and mathematical applications (Moderated)
bionet.general			General BIOSCI discussion.
bionet.genome.chrom22		Discussion of Chromosome 22.
bionet.genome.arabidopsis	Information about the Arabidopsis project. 
bionet.jobs			Scientific Job opportunities.
bionet.journals.contents	Contents of biology journal publications.
bionet.molbio.ageing		Discussions of cellular and organismal ageing.
bionet.molbio.bio-matrix	Computer applications to biological databases.
bionet.molbio.embldatabank	Info about the EMBL Nucleic acid database.
bionet.molbio.evolution		How genes and proteins have evolved.
bionet.molbio.genbank		Info about the GenBank Nucleic acid database.
bionet.molbio.genbank.updates	Hot off the presses! (Moderated)
bionet.molbio.gene-linkage	Discussions about genetic linkage analysis.
bionet.molbio.gene-org		How genes are organized on chromosomes.
bionet.molbio.genome-program	Discussion of Human Genome Project issues.
bionet.molbio.methds-reagnts	Requests for information and lab reagents.
bionet.molbio.proteins		Research on proteins and protein databases.
bionet.neuroscience		Research issues in the neurosciences.
bionet.population-bio		Technical discussions about population biology.
bionet.sci-resources		Information about funding agencies, etc.
bionet.software			Information about software for biology.
bionet.users.addresses		Who's who in Biology.


Bit
---
"bit" is  a collection  of newsgroups  which are  being distributed  by a
collection of sites  that choose to carry them. The  "bit" newsgroups are
redistributions of the  more popular BitNet LISTSERV  mailing lists. Here
is a list of the "bit" newsgroups:

bit.admin                 bit. Newgroups Discussions.
bit.general               Discussions Relating to BitNet/Usenet.
bit.listserv.advise-l     User Services List.
bit.listserv.aidsnews     AIDS/HIV News.
bit.listserv.aix-l        IBM AIX Discussion List.
bit.listserv.allmusic     Discussions on all forms of Music.
bit.listserv.apple2-l     Apple II List.
bit.listserv.applicat     Applications under BITNET.
bit.listserv.asm370       IBM 370 Assembly Programming Discuss.
bit.listserv.big-lan      Campus-Size LAN Discussion Group. (Moderated)
bit.listserv.billing      Chargeback of (computer) resources.
bit.listserv.biosph-l     Biosphere, ecology, Discussion List.
bit.listserv.bitnews      BITNET News.
bit.listserv.candle-l     Candle Products Discussion List.
bit.listserv.christia     Practical Christian Life.
bit.listserv.cics-l       CICS Discussion List.
bit.listserv.cinema-l     Discussions on all forms of Cinema.
bit.listserv.cmspip-l     VM/SP CMS Pipelines Discussion List.
bit.listserv.commed       Communication education.
bit.listserv.cumrec-l     CUMREC-L Administrative computer use.
bit.listserv.cyber-l      CDC Computer Discussion.
bit.listserv.c18-l        18th Century Interdisciplinary Discussion.
bit.listserv.c370-l       C/370 Discussion List.
bit.listserv.dbase-l      Discussion on the use of the dBase IV.
bit.listserv.db2-l        DB2 Data Base Discussion List.
bit.listserv.disarm-l     Disarmament Discussion List.
bit.listserv.domain-l     Domains Discussion Group.
bit.listserv.earntech     EARN Technical Group.
bit.listserv.edi-l        Electronic Data Interchange Issues.
bit.listserv.edpolyan     Professionals and Students Discussing Education.
bit.listserv.edtech       EDTECH - Educational Technology. (Moderated)
bit.listserv.emusic-l     Electronic Music Discussion List.
bit.listserv.envbeh-l     Forum on Environment and Human Beh.avior.
bit.listserv.erl-l        Educational Research List (TCSVM)
bit.listserv.esl-l        DECUS Education Software Library Discussion L.
bit.listserv.ethics-l     Discussion of Ethics in Computing.
bit.listserv.film-l       Film making and reviews List.
bit.listserv.frac-l       FRACTAL Discussion List.
bit.listserv.games-l      Computer Games List.
bit.listserv.gaynet       GayNet Discussion List. (Moderated)
bit.listserv.gddm-l       The GDDM Discussion List.
bit.listserv.geodesic     List for the Discussion of Buckminster Fuller.
bit.listserv.gguide       BITNIC GGUIDE List.
bit.listserv.gis-l        Geographic Information Systems Discussion List.
bit.listserv.gmast-l      Gamemasters Interest Group.
bit.listserv.govdoc-l     Discussion of Government Document Is.
bit.listserv.gutnberg     GUTNBERG Discussion List.
bit.listserv.hellas       The Hellenic Discussion List. (Moderated)
bit.listserv.history      History.
bit.listserv.i-amiga      Info-Amiga List.
bit.listserv.ibm-hesc     IBM Higher Education Consortium.
bit.listserv.ibm-main     IBM Mainframe Discussion List.
bit.listserv.ibm-nets     BITNIC IBM-NETS List.
bit.listserv.ibmtcp-l     IBM TCP/IP List.
bit.listserv.ibm7171      Protocol Converter List.
bit.listserv.icu-l        Instruction Computing Update Newsletter List.
bit.listserv.info-gcg     INFO-GCG: GCG Genetics Software Discussion.
bit.listserv.infonets     Infonets Redistribution. (Moderated)
bit.listserv.ingrafx      Information Graphics.
bit.listserv.ioob-l       Industrial Psychology.
bit.listserv.isn          ISN Data Switch Technical Discussion Group.
bit.listserv.jes2-l       JES2 Discussion group.
bit.listserv.jnet-l       BITNIC JNET-L List.
bit.listserv.l-hcap       Handicap List. (Moderated)
bit.listserv.l-vmctr      VMCENTER Components Discussion List.
bit.listserv.lawsch-l     Law School Discussion List.
bit.listserv.liaison      BITNIC LIAISON.
bit.listserv.license      Software Licensing List.
bit.listserv.linkfail     Link failure announcements.
bit.listserv.literary     Discussions about Literature.
bit.listserv.lstsrv-l     Forum on LISTSERV release 1.6.
bit.listserv.mail-l       BITNIC MAIL-L List.
bit.listserv.mailbook     MAIL/MAILBOOK subscription List.
bit.listserv.mba-l        MBA Student curriculum Discussion.
bit.listserv.mbu-l        Megabyte University (Computers & Writing).
bit.listserv.medlib-l     Medical Libraries Discussion List.
bit.listserv.mednews      MEDNEWS - Health Info-Com Network Newsletter.
bit.listserv.netnws-l     NETNWS-L Netnews List.
bit.listserv.new-list     NEW-LIST - New List Announcements. (Moderated)
bit.listserv.next-l       NeXT Computer List.
bit.listserv.nodmgt-l     Node Management.
bit.listserv.notis-l      NOTIS/DOBIS Discussion group List.
bit.listserv.novell       Novell LAN Interest Group.
bit.listserv.omrscan      OMR Scanner Discussion.
bit.listserv.ozone        OZONE Discussion List.
bit.listserv.pacs-l       Public-Access Computer Systems Forum.
bit.listserv.page-l       IBM 3812/3820 Tips and Problems Discussion List.
bit.listserv.pagemakr     PageMaker for Desktop Publishers.
bit.listserv.pmdf-l       PMDF Distribution List.
bit.listserv.policy-l     Discussion about BITNET policies.
bit.listserv.politics     Forum for the Discussion of Politics.
bit.listserv.power-l      POWER-L IBM RS/6000 POWER Family.
bit.listserv.relusr-l     Relay Users Forum.
bit.listserv.rexxlist     REXX Programming Discussion List.
bit.listserv.rhetoric     Rhetoric, social movements, persuasion.
bit.listserv.rscsmods     The RSCS modifications List.
bit.listserv.rscsv2-l     BITNIC RSCSV2-L List.
bit.listserv.s-comput     SuperComputers List (USCVM).
bit.listserv.sas-l        SAS(r) Discussion.
bit.listserv.script-l     IBM vs Waterloo SCRIPT Discussion Group.
bit.listserv.scuba-l      Scuba diving Discussion List.
bit.listserv.sganet       Student Government Global Mail Network.
bit.listserv.simula       The SIMULA Language List.
bit.listserv.snamgt-l     SNA Network Management Discussion.
bit.listserv.sos-data     Social Science Data List.
bit.listserv.spires-l     SPIRES Conference List.
bit.listserv.sportpsy     Exercise and Sports Psychology.
bit.listserv.spssx-l      SPSSX(r) Discussion.
bit.listserv.sqlinfo      Forum for SQL/DS and Related Topics.
bit.listserv.stat-l       STATISTICAL CONSULTING.
bit.listserv.tech-l       BITNIC TECH-L List.
bit.listserv.test         Test Newsgroup.
bit.listserv.tex-l        The TeXnical topics List.
bit.listserv.tn3270-l     tn3270 protocol Discussion List.
bit.listserv.trans-l      BITNIC TRANS-L List.
bit.listserv.travel-l     Tourism Discussions.
bit.listserv.ucp-l        University Computing Project Mailing List.
bit.listserv.ug-l         Usage Guidelines.
bit.listserv.uigis-l      User Interface for Geographical Info Systems.
bit.listserv.urep-l       UREP-L Mailing List.
bit.listserv.usrdir-l     User Directory List.
bit.listserv.valert-l     Virus Alert List. (Moderated)
bit.listserv.vfort-l      VS-Fortran Discussion List.
bit.listserv.vm-util      VM Utilities Discussion List.
bit.listserv.vmslsv-l     VAX/VMS LISTSERV Discussion List.
bit.listserv.vmxa-l       VM/XA Discussion List.
bit.listserv.vnews-l      VNEWS Discussion List.
bit.listserv.win3-l       Microsoft Windows Version 3 Forum.
bit.listserv.wp50-l       WordPerfect Corporation Products Discussions.
bit.listserv.xcult-l      International Intercultural Newsletter.
bit.listserv.xedit-l      VM System Editor List.
bit.listserv.xerox-l      The Xerox Discussion List.
bit.listserv.xmailer      Crosswell Mailer.
bit.listserv.x400-l       x.400 Protocol List.
bit.listserv.9370-l       IBM 9370 and VM/IS specific topics List.
bit.mailserv.word-mac     Word Processing on the Macintosh.
bit.mailserv.word-pc      Word Processing on the IBM PC.


Biz
---
"Biz" is a distribution of newsgroups that are carried and propagated
by sites interested in the world of business products around them -- in
particular, computer products and services.  This includes product
announcements, announcements of fixes and enhancements, product
reviews, and postings of demo software.  Current biz groups include:

biz.clarinet		Announcements about ClariNet.
biz.clarinet.sample	Samples of ClariNet newsgroups for the outside world.
biz.comp.hardware	Generic commercial hardware postings.
biz.comp.services	Generic commercial service postings.
biz.comp.software	Generic commercial software postings.
biz.comp.telebit	Support of the Telebit modem.
biz.comp.telebit.netblazer	The Telebit Netblazer modem.
biz.config		Biz Usenet configuration and administration.
biz.control		Control information and messages.
biz.dec			DEC equipment & software.
biz.dec.ip		IP networking on DEC machines.
biz.dec.workstations	DEC workstation discussions & info.
biz.jobs.offered	Position announcements.
biz.misc		Miscellaneous postings of a commercial nature.
biz.sco.announce	SCO and related product announcements. (Moderated)
biz.sco.general		Q&A, discussions and comments on SCO products.
biz.sco.opendesktop	ODT environment and applications tech info, q&a.
biz.test		Biz newsgroup test messages.
biz.stolen		Postings about stolen merchandise.

Feeds may possibly be obtained from ddsw1.mcs.com, husc6.harvard.edu,
rpi.edu, rutgers.edu, spl1, and telly.on.ca among others.

ClariNet
--------
The ClariNet hierarchy consists of newsgroups gatewayed from
commercial news services and other ``official'' sources.  A feed of
the ClariNet groups requires payment of a fee and execution of a
license.  More information may be obtained by sending mail to 
"info@clarinet.com".

clari.news		ClariNet UPI general news wiregroups.
clari.news.hot		Temporary groups for hot news stories.
clari.biz		ClariNet UPI business news wiregroups.
clari.sports		ClariNet UPI sports wiregroups.
clari.tw		ClariNet UPI technology related news wiregroups.
clari.nb		ClariNet Newsbytes Information service Newsgroups.
clari.net		ClariNet non-news newsgroups.
clari.canada		ClariNet broadcast style news about Canada.
clari.feature		Feature columns and products.
clari.feature.dave_barry	Columns of humorist Dave Barry. (Moderated)
clari.feature.mike_royko	Chicago Opinion Columnist Mike Royko. (Moderated)
clari.feature.miss_manners	Judith Martin's Humorous Etiquette Advice. (Moderated)
clari.feature.lederer	Richard Lederer's "Looking at Language". (Moderated)
clari.feature.kinsey	Sex Q&A and Advice from Kinsey Institute. (Moderated)
clari.canada.newscast	Regular newscast for Canadians. (Moderated)
clari.canada.briefs	Regular updates of Canadian News in Brief. (Moderated)
clari.canada.briefs.ont	News briefs for Ontario and Toronto. (Moderated)
clari.canada.briefs.west News briefs for Alberta, the Prairies & B.C. (Moderated)
clari.canada.general	Short items on Canadian News stories. (Moderated)
clari.canada.biz	Canadian Business Summaries. (Moderated)
clari.tw.aerospace	Aerospace industry and companies. (Moderated)
clari.tw.computers	Computer industry, applications and developments. (Moderated)
clari.tw.defense	Defense industry issues. (Moderated)
clari.tw.education	Stories involving Universities & colleges. (Moderated)
clari.tw.electronics	Electronics makers and sellers. (Moderated)
clari.tw.environment	Environmental news, hazardous waste, forests. (Moderated)
clari.tw.health		Disease, medicine, health care, sick celebs. (Moderated)
clari.tw.health.aids	AIDS stories, research, political issues. (Moderated)
clari.tw.misc		General technical industry stories. (Moderated)
clari.tw.nuclear	Nuclear power & waste. (Moderated)
clari.tw.science	General science stories. (Moderated)
clari.tw.space		NASA, Astronomy & spaceflight. (Moderated)
clari.tw.stocks		Regular reports on computer & technology stock prices. (Moderated)
clari.tw.telecom	Phones, Satellites, Media & general Telecom. (Moderated)
clari.biz.commodity	Commodity news and price reports. (Moderated)
clari.biz.courts	Lawsuits and business related legal matters. (Moderated)
clari.biz.economy	Economic news and indicators. (Moderated)
clari.biz.economy.world	Economy stories for non-US countries. (Moderated)
clari.biz.features		Business feature stories. (Moderated)
clari.biz.finance	Finance, currency, Corporate finance. (Moderated)
clari.biz.finance.earnings	Earnings & dividend reports. (Moderated)
clari.biz.finance.personal	Personal investing & finance. (Moderated)
clari.biz.finance.services	Banks and financial industries. (Moderated)
clari.biz.invest	News for investors. (Moderated)
clari.biz.labor		Strikes, unions and labor relations. (Moderated)
clari.biz.market	General stock market news. (Moderated)
clari.biz.market.amex	American Stock Exchange reports & news. (Moderated)
clari.biz.market.dow	Dow Jones NYSE reports. (Moderated)
clari.biz.market.ny	NYSE reports. (Moderated)
clari.biz.market.otc	NASDAQ reports. (Moderated)
clari.biz.market.report	General market reports, S&P, etc. (Moderated)
clari.biz.mergers	Mergers and acquisitions. (Moderated)
clari.biz.misc		Other business news. (Moderated)
clari.biz.products	Important new products & services. (Moderated)
clari.biz.top		Top business news. (Moderated)
clari.biz.urgent	Breaking business news. (Moderated)
clari.nb.index		Weekly summary of Newsbytes computer news. (Moderated)
clari.nb.apple		Newsbytes Apple/Macintosh news. (Moderated)
clari.nb.business	Newsbytes business & industry news. (Moderated)
clari.nb.general	Newsbytes general computer news. (Moderated)
clari.nb.govt		Newsbytes legal and government computer news. (Moderated)
clari.nb.ibm		Newsbytes IBM PC World coverage. (Moderated)
clari.nb.review		Newsbytes new product reviews. (Moderated)
clari.nb.telecom	Newsbytes telecom & online industry news. (Moderated)
clari.nb.trends		Newsbytes new developments & trends. (Moderated)
clari.nb.unix		Newsbytes Unix news. (Moderated)
clari.net.admin		Announcements for news admins at ClariNet sites. (Moderated)
clari.net.announce	Announcements for all ClariNet readers. (Moderated)
clari.net.products	New ClariNet products. (Moderated)
clari.net.talk		Discussion of ClariNet -- only unmoderated group.
clari.news.almanac	Daily almanac - quotes, 'this date in history' etc. (Moderated)
clari.news.arts		Stage, drama & other fine arts. (Moderated)
clari.news.aviation	Aviation industry and mishaps. (Moderated)
clari.news.books	Books & publishing. (Moderated)
clari.news.briefs	Regular news summaries. (Moderated)
clari.news.bulletin	Major breaking stories of the week. (Moderated)
clari.news.canada	News related to Canada. (Moderated)
clari.news.children	Stories related to children and parenting. (Moderated)
clari.news.consumer	Consumer news, car reviews etc. (Moderated)
clari.news.demonstration	Demonstrations around the world. (Moderated)
clari.news.disaster	Major problems, accidents & natural disasters. (Moderated)
clari.news.economy	General economic news. (Moderated)
clari.news.election	News regarding both US and international elections. (Moderated)
clari.news.entertain	Entertainment industry news & features. (Moderated)
clari.news.europe	News related to Europe. (Moderated)
clari.news.features	Unclassified feature stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.fighting	Clashes around the world. (Moderated)
clari.news.flash	Ultra-important once-a-year news flashes. (Moderated)
clari.news.goodnews	Stories of success and survival. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov		General Government related stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov.agency	Government agencies, FBI etc. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov.budget	Budgets at all levels. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov.corrupt	Government corruption, kickbacks etc. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov.international	International government-related stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov.officials	Government officials & their problems. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov.state	State government stories of national importance. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov.taxes	Tax laws, trials etc. (Moderated)
clari.news.gov.usa	US Federal government news.  (High volume). (Moderated)
clari.news.group	Special interest groups not covered in their own group. (Moderated)
clari.news.group.blacks	News of interest to black people. (Moderated)
clari.news.group.gays	Homosexuality & Gay Rights. (Moderated)
clari.news.group.jews	Jews & Jewish interests. (Moderated)
clari.news.group.women	Women's issues and abortion. (Moderated)
clari.news.hot.east_europe	News from Eastern Europe. (Moderated)
clari.news.hot.iraq		The Gulf Crisis
clari.news.hot.panama		Panama and General Noriega. (Moderated)
clari.news.interest		Human interest stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.interest.animals	Animals in the news. (Moderated)
clari.news.interest.history	Human interest stories & history in the making. (Moderated)
clari.news.interest.people	Famous people in the news. (Moderated)
clari.news.interest.people.column	Daily "People" column -- tidbits on celebs. (Moderated)
clari.news.interest.quirks	Unusual or funny news stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.issues		Stories on major issues not covered in their own group. (Moderated)
clari.news.issues.civil_rights	Freedom, Racism, Civil Rights Issues. (Moderated)
clari.news.issues.conflict	Conflict between groups around the world. (Moderated)
clari.news.issues.family	Family, Child abuse, etc. (Moderated)
clari.news.labor	Unions, strikes. (Moderated)
clari.news.labor.strike	Strikes. (Moderated)
clari.news.law		General group for law related issues. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.civil	Civil trials & litigation. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.crime	Major crimes. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.crime.sex	Sex crimes and trials. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.crime.trial	Trials for criminal actions. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.crime.violent	Violent crime & criminals. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.drugs	Drug related crimes & drug stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.investigation	Investigation of crimes. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.police	Police & law enforcement. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.prison	Prisons, prisoners & escapes. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.profession	Lawyers, Judges etc. (Moderated)
clari.news.law.supreme	U.S. Supreme court rulings & news. (Moderated)
clari.news.lifestyle	Fashion, leisure etc. (Moderated)
clari.news.military	Military equipment, people & issues. (Moderated)
clari.news.movies	Reviews, news and stories on movie stars. (Moderated)
clari.news.music	Reviews and issues concerning music & musicians. (Moderated)
clari.news.politics	Politicians & politics. (Moderated)
clari.news.politics.people	Politicians & Political Personalities. (Moderated)
clari.news.religion	Religion, religious leaders, televangelists. (Moderated)
clari.news.sex		Sexual issues, sex-related political stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.terrorism	Terrorist actions & related news around the world. (Moderated)
clari.news.top		Top US news stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.top.world	Top international news stories. (Moderated)
clari.news.trends	Surveys and trends. (Moderated)
clari.news.trouble	Less major accidents, problems & mishaps. (Moderated)
clari.news.tv		TV schedules, news, reviews & stars. (Moderated)
clari.news.urgent	Major breaking stories of the day. (Moderated)
clari.news.weather	Weather and temperature reports. (Moderated)
clari.sports.baseball	Baseball scores, stories, games, stats. (Moderated)
clari.sports.basketball	Basketball coverage. (Moderated)
clari.sports.features	Sports feature stories. (Moderated)
clari.sports.football	Pro football coverage. (Moderated)
clari.sports.hockey	NHL coverage. (Moderated)
clari.sports.misc	Other sports, plus general sports news. (Moderated)
clari.sports.motor	Racing, Motor Sports. (Moderated)
clari.sports.tennis	Tennis news & scores. (Moderated)
clari.sports.top	Top sports news. (Moderated)

GNU
---
gnUSENET (gnUSENET is Not USENET) is a set of newsgroups that are
gated bi-directionally with the Internet mailing lists of the GNU
Project of the Free Software Foundation.  GNU (GNU's Not Unix) will be
a complete operating system, including application programs, with
freely redistributable source code.  Please use ONLY gnu.misc.discuss
for discussion of topics considered contrary to GNU aims and political
philosophy (e.g., porting of GNU code to Apple machines, usefulness of
intellectual property laws, etc.).

The GNU mailing lists and newsgroups, like the GNU project itself,
exist to promote the freedom to share software.  So please don't use
these newsgroups (or the other GNU lists) to promote or recommend
non-free software.  (Using them to post ordering information is the
ultimate faux pas.)  If there is no free program to do a certain task,
then somebody should write one!

Current groups include:

Newsgroup		Description
---------		-----------
gnu.announce		Status and announcements from the Project. (Moderated)
gnu.bash.bug	Bourne Again SHell bug reports and suggested fixes. (Moderated)
gnu.chess		Announcements about the GNU Chess program.
gnu.emacs.announce	Announcements about GNU Emacs. (Moderated)
gnu.emacs.bug		GNU Emacs bug reports and suggested fixes. (Moderated)
gnu.emacs.gnews		News reading under GNU Emacs using Weemba's Gnews.
gnu.emacs.gnus		News reading under GNU Emacs using GNUS (in English).
gnu.emacs.help		User queries and answers.
gnu.emacs.sources	ONLY (please!) C and Lisp source code for GNU Emacs.
gnu.emacs.vm.bug	Bug reports on the Emacs VM mail package.
gnu.emacs.vm.info	Information about the Emacs VM mail package.
gnu.emacs.vms		VMS port of GNU Emacs.
gnu.epoch.misc		The Epoch X11 extensions to Emacs.
gnu.g++.announce	Announcements about the GNU C++ Compiler. (Moderated)
gnu.g++.bug		g++ bug reports and suggested fixes. (Moderated)
gnu.g++.help		GNU C++ compiler (G++) user queries and answers.
gnu.g++.lib.bug		g++ library bug reports/suggested fixes. (Moderated)
gnu.gcc.announce	Announcements about the GNU C Compiler. (Moderated)
gnu.gcc.bug		GNU C Compiler bug reports/suggested fixes. (Moderated)
gnu.gcc.help		GNU C Compiler (gcc) user queries and answers.
gnu.gdb.bug		gcc/g++ DeBugger bugs and suggested fixes. (Moderated)
gnu.ghostscript.bug	GNU Ghostscript interpreter bugs. (Moderated)
gnu.gnusenet.config	GNU's Not Usenet administration and configuration.
gnu.gnusenet.test	GNU's Not Usenet alternative hierarchy testing.
gnu.groff.bug		Bugs in the GNU roff programs. (Moderated)
gnu.misc.discuss	Serious discussion about GNU and freed software.
gnu.smalltalk.bug	Bugs in GNU Smalltalk. (Moderated)
gnu.test		Test messages for news propagation.
gnu.utils.bug		GNU utilities bugs (e.g., make, gawk. ls). (Moderated)

Use gnu.emacs.help to discuss software on gnu.emacs.sources and to ask
for sources.  gnu.emacs.sources is archived by many sites and they
want sources ONLY!

The gnu.*.bug groups are pseudo-moderated (that is, the group is
marked moderated so that postings are mailed to prep.ai.mit.edu and
then redistributed to the both the mailing list and newsgroup from
there).  The gnu.*announce groups all fully moderated.

If one of your USENET feeds, can't provide you with a feed of the
gnUSENET newsgroups, send mail to gnu.gnusenet.config@prep.ai.mit.edu
to ask a feed.

Questions about GNU can be directed to gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu or:
	Free Software Foundation
	675 Massachusetts Avenue
	Cambridge, MA  02139
	USA
	+1-617-876-3296

IEEE
----
The IEEE newsgroups concern the IEEE -- the Institute of Electrical
and Electronics Engineers.

ieee.announce	Announcements of general nature to IEEE community. (Moderated)
ieee.compmail.announce	Announcements pertaining to COMPMAIL. (Moderated)
ieee.compmail.bugs	COMPMAIL Bug reports - public discussion.
ieee.compmail.pc	Items of interest to PC-SprintMail users.
ieee.fidonet.admin	FidoNet IEEE SysOps conference.
ieee.fidonet.bbs-help	FidoNet IEEE BBS-Help conference.
ieee.fidonet.ieee	FidoNet General IEEE conference.
ieee.general		IEEE - General discussion.
ieee.mail.help		Help with using Mail.
ieee.net.tech		Network Technical Discussion.
ieee.news.admin		Newsgroup Administration.
ieee.news.announce	Announcements pertaining to newsgroup hierarchy. (Moderated)
ieee.news.newgroup	Newgroup messages.
ieee.pcnfs		Discussion & tips on PC-NFS.
ieee.pcnfs.lifeline	Discussion & tips on using PC-NFS LifeLine Mail.
ieee.rab.announce	Regional Activities Board - Announcements. (Moderated)
ieee.rab.general	Regional Activities Board - General discussion.
ieee.region1		Region 1 Announcements.
ieee.tab.announce	Technical Activities Board - Announcements. (Moderated)
ieee.tab.general	Technical Activities Board - General discussion.
ieee.usab.announce	USAB - Announcements. (Moderated)
ieee.usab.general	USAB - General discussion.

We are willing to distribute these newsgroups via NNTP to any site
that desires to carry them.  If you would like a feed of these
newsgroups, have the newsadmin for your site contact 'usenet@ieee.org'
for a feed.  

Inet/DDN
--------
Another alternative hierarchy is the "inet/ddn" distribution.  This
consists of many newsgroups bearing names similar to traditional Usenet
groups and corresponding to Internet discussion lists.  These groups are
circulated using the NNTP transport mechanism amongst sites on the
Internet in an attempt to reduce the number of copies of these groups
flowing through the mail (some sites get these groups via UUCP and
other tranpost mechanisms, but the volume can be substantial and load
may be significant without a high-speed link).  Further details may be
obtained by writing to Erik Fair (fair@ucbarpa.berkeley.edu).

Current inet groups are:

comp.ai.edu		Applications of Artificial Intelligence to Education.
comp.ai.vision		Artificial Intelligence Vision Research. (Moderated)
comp.dcom.lans.hyperchannel	Hyperchannel networks within an IP network.
comp.editors		Topics related to computerized text editing.
comp.edu.composition	Writing instruction in computer-based classrooms.
comp.org.eff.news	News from the Electronic Frontiers Foundation. (Moderated)
comp.org.eff.talk	Discussion of EFF goals, strategies, etc.
comp.lang.asm370	Programming in IBM System/370 Assembly Language.
comp.lang.clu		The CLU language & related topics.
comp.lang.forth.mac	The CSI MacForth programming environment.
comp.lang.icon		Topics related to the ICON programming language.
comp.lang.idl		IDL (Interface Description Language) related topics.
comp.lang.lisp.franz	The Franz Lisp programming language.
comp.lang.lisp.x	The XLISP language system.
comp.lang.rexx		The REXX command language.
comp.lang.scheme.c	The Scheme language environment.
comp.lang.visual	Visual programming languages.
comp.lsi.cad		Electrical Computer Aided Design.
comp.mail.multi-media	Multimedia Mail.
comp.music		Applications of computers in music research.
comp.os.aos		Topics related to Data General's AOS/VS.
comp.os.cpm.amethyst	Discussion of Amethyst, CP/M-80 software package.
comp.os.rsts		Topics related to the PDP-11 RSTS/E operating system.
comp.os.v		The V distributed operating system from Stanford.
comp.periphs.printers	Information on printers.
comp.protocols.iso.dev-environ	The ISO Development Environment.
comp.protocols.iso.x400	X400 mail protocol discussions. (Moderated)
comp.protocols.iso.x400.gateway	X400 mail gateway discussions.  (Moderated)
comp.protocols.pcnet	Topics related to PCNET (a personal computer network).
comp.protocols.snmp	The Simple Network Management Protocol.
comp.protocols.tcp-ip.domains	Topics related to Domain Style names.
comp.protocols.time.ntp	The network time protocol.
comp.security.announce	Announcements from the CERT about security. (Moderated)
comp.soft-sys.andrew	The Andrew system from CMU.
comp.std.announce	Announcements about standards activities. (Moderated)
comp.sys.cdc		Control Data Corporation Computers (e.g., Cybers).
comp.sys.handhelds	Handheld computers and programmable calculators.
comp.sys.intel.ipsc310	Anything related to Xenix on an Intel 310.
comp.sys.northstar	Northstar microcomputer users.
comp.sys.super		Supercomputers.
comp.sys.ti.explorer	The Texas Instruments Explorer.
comp.sys.zenith		Heath terminals and related Zenith products.
comp.terminals.bitgraph	The BB&N BitGraph Terminal.
comp.terminals.tty5620	AT&T Dot Mapped Display Terminals (5620 and BLIT).
comp.text.sgml		ISO 8879 SGML, structured documents, markup languages.
comp.theory		Theoretical Computer Science.
comp.theory.cell-automata	Discussion of all aspects of cellular automata.
comp.theory.dynamic-sys	Ergodic Theory and Dynamical Systems.
comp.theory.self-org-sys	Topics related to self-organization.
comp.unix.cray		Cray computers and their operating systems.
comp.windows.x.announce	X Consortium announcements.
comp.windows.x.motif	The Motif GUI for the X Window System.
news.software.nntp	The Network News Transfer Protocol.
rec.games.vectrex	The Vectrex game system.
rec.mag.fsfnet		A Science Fiction "fanzine." (Moderated)
sci.bio.technology	Any topic relating to biotechnology.
sci.math.num-analysis	Numerical Analysis.
sci.philosophy.meta	Discussions within the scope of "MetaPhilosophy."
soc.culture.esperanto	The neutral international language Esperanto.

ddn.mgt-bulletin	The DDN Management Bulletin from NIC.DDN.MIL (Moderated)
ddn.newsletter		The DDN Newsletter from NIC.DDN.MIL (Moderated)

K12
---
K12Net is a loosely-organized, totally decentralized network of school
based/oriented "electronic bulletin board systems" (BBS's) throughout
North America, Australia, and Europe that share curriculum-related
message bases or "echo forums," classroom-to-classroom projects, and
educational files -- making them available to students and educators
at no cost and usually on a local phone call.

K12Net was born in the summer of 1990 as a collection of FidoNet
echomail conferences.  It was created by teachers so that they and
their students can use networking technology to advance education in
the 'K12' arena.  On FidoNet, it spans North America, goes through
Europe to the Soviet Union, wanders around Australia, etc.

As an experiment, m2xenix.psg.com is gating the echos (from
puddle.fidonet.org aka 1:105/42) into Usenet newsgroups and feeding
them to uunet.uu.net where they are available to all and sundry.  The
initial name mapping is as follows:

k12.chat.elementary  Informal discussion among elementary students, grades K-5.
k12.chat.junior	     Informal discussion among students in grades 6-8.
k12.chat.senior	     Informal discussion among high school students.
k12.chat.teacher     Informal discussion among teachers in grades K-12.
k12.ed.art	     Art curriculum in K-12 education.
k12.ed.business	     Business education curriculum in grades K-12.
k12.ed.comp.literacy Teaching computer literacy in grades K-12.
k12.ed.health-pe     Health and Physical Education curriculum in grades K-12.
k12.ed.life-skills   Home Economics and Career education in grades K-12.
k12.ed.math	     Mathematics curriculum in K-12 education.
k12.ed.music	     Music and Performing Arts curriculum in K-12 education.
k12.ed.science	     Science curriculum in K-12 education.
k12.ed.soc-studies   Social Studies and History curriculum in K-12 education.
k12.ed.special	     K-12 education for students w/ handicaps or special needs.
k12.ed.tag	     K-12 education for talented and gifted students.
k12.ed.tech	     Industrial Arts and vocational education in grades K-12.
k12.lang.art	     Language Arts curriculum in K-12 education.
k12.lang.deutsch-eng Bilingual German/English practice with native speakers.
k12.lang.esp-eng     Bilingual Spanish/English practice with native speakers.
k12.lang.francais    Bilingual French/English practice with native speakers.
k12.lang.russian     Bilingual Russian/English practice with native speakers.

The k12.chat.* groups contain inter-student chat, and tend to be,
shall we say, uninteresting to many adults, and a bit voluminous.

For further information, contact Janet Murray,
janet.murray@f23.n105.z1.fidonet.org.

U3B
---
Groups dealing with AT&T 3B{2,5,15,20,4000} computers -- everything
except for the UNIX PC/3B1.  Both uunet and ames carry these groups.

u3b.config     3B Distribution configuration.
u3b.misc       3B Miscellaneous Discussions.
u3b.sources    Sources for AT&T 3B systems.
u3b.tech       3B Technical Discussions.
u3b.test       3B Distribution Testing.

VMSnet
------
This hierarchy is for topics of interest to VAX/VMS users. They are carried
by most major usenet news sites, including uunet. The vmsnet groups are
carried by roughly one third of the sites on usenet. To find a feed,
contact the system managers of news sites near you, and/or post to a local
or regional newsgroup and ask if anyone in the area is carrying the VMSnet
newsgroups. 

If you have tried these alternatives and still can not find a site in your
local area that carries the VMSnet groups, you can send mail to Terry Poot
<tp@mccall.com>, who will attempt to assist you in finding a feed for the
groups. Alternatively, you can send mail to the VMSnet mailing list
<vmsnet@drycas.club.cc.cmu.edu>, which is also gatewayed to the vmsnet.uucp
newsgroup and ask for help. In either case, be sure to state where you are
geographically, and what your constraints are. For instance, if you can
only place local phone calls, be sure to say just what areas are a local
call for you. Also describe your network connectivity (what networks you
are on, your uucp neighbors, etc.).

Here is a current list of VMSnet newsgroups:

vmsnet.admin		Administration of the VMSnet newsgroups.
vmsnet.announce		General announcements of interest to all. (Moderated)
vmsnet.announce.newusers	Orientation info for new users. (Moderated)
vmsnet.mail.misc	Other electronic mail software.
vmsnet.mail.pmdf	PMDF email system, gatewayed to ipmdf mailing list.
vmsnet.mail.mx	MX email system from RPI, gatewayed to MX mailing list.
vmsnet.misc		General VMS topics not covered elsewhere.
vmsnet.networks.desktop.misc	Other desktop integration software.
vmsnet.networks.desktop.pathworks	DEC Pathworks desktop integration software.
vmsnet.networks.tcp-ip.cmu-tek  CMU-TEK TCP/IP package, gatewayed to cmu-tek-tcp+@andrew.cmu.edu.
vmsnet.networks.tcp-ip.misc	Other TCP/IP solutions for VMS.
vmsnet.networks.tcp-ip.multinet	TGV's Multinet TCP/IP, gatewayed to info-multinet.
vmsnet.sources		Source code postings ONLY. (Moderated)
vmsnet.sources.d	Discussion about or requests for sources.
vmsnet.sources.games	Recreational software postings.
vmsnet.sysmgt		VMS system management.
vmsnet.test		Test messages.
vmsnet.tpu              TPU language and applications, gatewayed to info-tpu.
vmsnet.uucp		DECUS uucp software, gatewayed to vmsnet mailing list.


-- 
Gene Spafford
NSF/Purdue/U of Florida  Software Engineering Research Center,
Dept. of Computer Sciences, Purdue University, W. Lafayette IN 47907-1398
Internet:  spaf@cs.purdue.edu	phone:  (317) 494-7825
