Xref: blister news.lists:180 news.groups:7458 news.announce.newusers:63
Path: blister!jtsv16!torsqnt!news-server.csri.toronto.edu!rpi!zaphod.mps.ohio-state.edu!samsung!news.cs.indiana.edu!purdue!spaf
From: spaf@cs.purdue.EDU (Gene Spafford)
Newsgroups: news.lists,news.groups,news.announce.newusers
Subject: List of Active Newsgroups
Message-ID: <15402@ector.cs.purdue.edu>
Date: 25 Jul 91 23:15:59 GMT
Expires: 23 Oct 91 23:15:59 GMT
Followup-To: news.lists
Organization: Dept. of Computer Sciences, Purdue Univ.
Lines: 740
Approved: spaf@cs.purdue.EDU
Supersedes: <14698@ector.cs.purdue.edu>

[Most recent change: 25 Jul 1991 by spaf@cs.purdue.edu (Gene Spafford)]

The following is a list of currently active USENET newsgroups as of
25 Jul 1991.  The groups distributed worldwide are divided 
into seven broad classifications:  "news", "soc", "talk", "misc",
"sci", "comp" and "rec".  Each of these classifications is organized
into groups and subgroups according to topic.

"comp"  Topics of interest to both computer professionals and
	hobbyists, including topics in computer science, software
	source, and information on hardware and software systems.

"sci"   Discussions marked by special and usually practical knowledge,
	relating to research in or application of the established
	sciences.

"misc"  Groups addressing themes not easily classified under any of the
	other headings or which incorporate themes from multiple
	categories.

"soc"	Groups primarily addressing social issues and socializing.

"talk"	Groups largely debate-oriented and tending to feature long
	discussions without resolution and without appreciable amounts
	of generally useful information.

"news"	Groups concerned with the news network and software themselves.

"rec"	Groups oriented towards hobbies and recreational activities.

These "world" newsgroups are (usually) circulated around the entire
USENET -- this implies world-wide distribution.  Not all groups
actually enjoy such wide distribution, however.  The European Usenet
and Eunet sites take only a selected subset of the more "technical"
groups, and controversial "noise" groups are often not carried by many
sites in the US and Canada (these groups are often under the "talk"
and "soc" classifications).  Many sites do not carry some or all of
the comp.binaries groups.

There are groups in other subcategories, but they are local: to
institutions, to geographic regions, etc. and they are not listed
here.  Note that these distribution categories can be used to restrict
the propagation of news articles.  Currently, distributions include:
	world		worldwide distribution (default)
	att		limited to AT&T
	can		limited to Canada
	eunet		limited to European sites
	na		limited to North America
	usa		limited to the United States
There may be other regional and local distribution categories available
at your site.  Most US states have distribution categories named after
the two letter abbreviation for that state or category (e.g., "ga" for
Georgia, "nj" for New Jersey). Please use an appropriate distribution
category if your article is not likely to be of interest to USENET
readers worldwide.  A companion article to this lists all of the
regional distributions and their newsgroups.

Some groups are moderated or are monitored mailing lists.  They can
only be posted to by mailing submissions to the coordinator (provided
in a companion posting).  Some selected sites provide automatic
remailing in support of 2.11 news -- posting to one of these groups
automatically mails the article for the poster. Some of the moderated
groups are gatewayed to USENET from the Internet and appear as
newsgroups to facilitate distribution and posting from the Usenet.
Other of the "world" groups are bidirectionally gatewayed with
Internet mailing lists; items submitted from the Internet side to the
digest are split up and submitted to the USENET group, while articles
submitted on the USENET side are bundled up and submitted to the
mailing list.  A complete list of moderated newsgroups, submission
addresses and moderators is given in a companion posting.

The following "world" groups have been gatewayed with the listed
Internet lists.  Some of them may not still be gatewayed due to
broken software and/or gateways; such groups are marked with an
asterisk ("*") in the list below.  Please contact me if you should know
of their current status.  Also note that the group "comp.lang.forth" is
gatewayed with the Bitnet discussion list "umforth@weizmann.bitnet", and
rec.railroad is run from "railroad@queens.bitnet".
Some of these lists are gated one-way into Usenet groups; those groups
have been marked with a ">" symbol in the list below.

If you are reading this article from a site not on the Usenet, you may
subscribe to Internet lists by writing to the request address.
You form such an address by putting "-request" before the "@" symbol,
as in "unix-emacs-request@bbn.com".  This gets your message directly to
the list maintainer instead of broadcasting it to all the readers of
the list.

Also note that moderators of Usenet groups may not be in charge of the
corresponding mailing list or gateway.  For example, the moderator of
comp.sources.unix does not have anything to do with the unix-sources
mailing list; matters concerning the mailing list should be addressed
to unix-sources-request@brl.mil

	Usenet Group		Internet list
	------------		-------------
	comp.dcom.modems	info-modems@wsmr-simtel20.army.mil
	comp.dcom.telecom	telecom@eecs.nwu.edu
	comp.emacs		unix-emacs@bbn.com
   	>comp.emacs		info-gnu-emacs@prep.ai.mit.edu
   	>comp.emacs		help-gnu-emacs@prep.ai.mit.edu
	*comp.lang.ada		info-ada@ajpo.sei.cmu.edu
	comp.lang.c		info-c@brl.mil
 	>comp.lang.c++		info-g++@prep.ai.mit.edu
 	>comp.lang.c++		help-g++@prep.ai.mit.edu
	comp.lang.modula2	info-m2@ucf1vm.bitnet
	*comp.lang.pascal	info-pascal@brl.mil
	*comp.lang.prolog	prolog@score.stanford.edu
	comp.os.cpm		info-cpm@wsmr-simtel20.army.mil
	comp.os.minix		info-minix@udel.edu
	comp.os.vms		info-vax@sri.com
	comp.protocols.kerberos	kerberos@athena.mit.edu
	comp.protocols.tcp-ip	tcp-ip@nic.ddn.mil
	comp.sources.misc	unix-sources@brl.mil
	comp.sources.unix	unix-sources@brl.mil
	comp.sys.apollo		apollo@umix.cc.umich.edu
	comp.sys.apple2		info-apple@apple.com
	comp.sys.atari.8bit	info-atari8@score.stanford.edu
	comp.sys.atari.st	info-atari16@score.stanford.edu
	comp.sys.misc		info-micro@wsmr-simtel20.army.mil
	comp.sys.sun		sun-spots@rice.edu
	comp.sys.tahoe		info-tahoe@csd1.milw.wisc.edu
	comp.sys.xerox		info-1100@tut.cis.ohio-state.edu
	*comp.terminals		info-terms@mc.lcs.mit.edu
	>comp.text.tex		texhax@cs.washington.edu
	comp.unix.questions	info-unix@brl.mil
	comp.unix.internals	unix-wizards@brl.mil
	comp.windows.x		xpert@expo.lcs.mit.edu
	rec.arts.sf-lovers	sf-lovers@rutgers.edu
	rec.food.recipes	recipes@mthvax.cs.miami.edu
        rec.radio.amateur.misc  info-hams@ucsd.edu
        rec.radio.amateur.packet    packet-radio@ucsd.edu
	rec.radio.amateur.policy  ham-policy@ucsd.edu
	rec.radio.shortwave     swl-l@cuvma.columbia.edu
	rec.music.funky		funky-music@hyper.lap.upenn.edu
	rec.music.gdead		dead-flames@virginia.edu
	rec.music.synth		synth-l@auvm.auvm.edu
        rec.video               videotech@wsmr-simtel20.army.mil
	*sci.astro		sky-fans@xx.lcs.mit.edu
	sci.physics		physics@unix.sri.com
	sci.physics.fusion	fusion@zorch.sf-bay.org
	sci.space		space@andrew.cmu.edu
	soc.roots		roots-l@vm1.nodak.edu

Please notify me of any errors or changes to the information in this article.

Gene Spafford
spaf@purdue.EDU
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Newsgroup		Description
----------------------------------------------------------------------
comp.admin.policy	Discussions of site administration policies.
comp.ai			Artificial intelligence discussions.
comp.ai.neural-nets	All aspects of neural networks.
comp.ai.nlang-know-rep	Natural Language and Knowledge Representation. (Moderated)
comp.ai.philosophy	Philosophical aspects of Artificial Intelligence.
comp.ai.shells		Artificial intelligence applied to shells.
comp.arch		Computer architecture.
comp.archives		Descriptions of public access archives. (Moderated)
comp.archives.admin	Issues relating to computer archive administration.
comp.benchmarks		Discussion of benchmarking techniques and results.
comp.binaries.acorn	Binary-only postings for Acorn machines. (Moderated)
comp.binaries.amiga	Encoded public domain programs in binary. (Moderated)
comp.binaries.apple2	Binary-only postings for the Apple II computer.
comp.binaries.atari.st	Binary-only postings for the Atari ST. (Moderated)
comp.binaries.ibm.pc	Binary-only postings for IBM PC/MS-DOS. (Moderated)
comp.binaries.ibm.pc.archives	Annoucements related to IBM PC archive sites.
comp.binaries.ibm.pc.d	Discussions about IBM/PC binary postings.
comp.binaries.ibm.pc.wanted	Requests for IBM PC and compatible programs.
comp.binaries.mac	Encoded Macintosh programs in binary. (Moderated)
comp.binaries.os2	Binaries for use under the OS/2 ABI. (Moderated)
comp.bugs.2bsd		Reports of UNIX* version 2BSD related bugs.
comp.bugs.4bsd		Reports of UNIX version 4BSD related bugs.
comp.bugs.4bsd.ucb-fixes	Bug reports/fixes for BSD Unix. (Moderated)
comp.bugs.misc		General UNIX bug reports and fixes (incl V7, uucp)
comp.bugs.sys5		Reports of USG (System III, V, etc.) bugs.
comp.cog-eng		Cognitive engineering.
comp.compilers		Compiler construction, theory, etc. (Moderated)
comp.compression	Data compression algorithms and theory.
comp.databases		Database and data management issues and theory.
comp.dcom.fax		Fax hardware, software, and protocols.
comp.dcom.lans		Local area network hardware and software.
comp.dcom.modems	Data communications hardware and software.
comp.dcom.sys.cisco	Info on Cisco routers and bridges.
comp.dcom.telecom	Telecommunications digest. (Moderated)
comp.doc		Archived public-domain documentation. (Moderated)
comp.doc.techreports	Lists of technical reports. (Moderated)
comp.dsp		Digital Signal Processing using computers.
comp.edu		Computer science education.
comp.emacs		EMACS editors of different flavors.
comp.fonts		Typefonts -- design, conversion, use, etc.
comp.graphics		Computer graphics, art, animation, image processing.
comp.graphics.research	Highly technical computer graphics discussion. (Moderated)
comp.graphics.visualization	 Info on scientific visualization.
comp.groupware		Hardware & software for facilitating group interaction.
comp.human-factors	Issues related to human-computer interaction (HCI).
comp.infosystems	Any discussion about information systems.
comp.ivideodisc		Interactive videodiscs -- uses, potential, etc.
comp.lang.ada		Discussion about Ada*.
comp.lang.apl		Discussion about APL.
comp.lang.c		Discussion about C.
comp.lang.c++		The object-oriented C++ language.
comp.lang.clos		Common Lisp Object System discussions.
comp.lang.eiffel	The object-oriented Eiffel language.
comp.lang.forth		Discussion about Forth.
comp.lang.fortran	Discussion about FORTRAN.
comp.lang.functional	Discussion about functional languages.
comp.lang.idl-pvwave	IDL and PV-Wave language discussions.
comp.lang.lisp		Discussion about LISP.
comp.lang.lisp.mcl	Discussing Apple's Macintosh Common Lisp.
comp.lang.misc		Different computer languages not specifically listed.
comp.lang.modula2	Discussion about Modula-2.
comp.lang.modula3	Discussion about the Modula-3 language.
comp.lang.objective-c	The Objective-C language and environment.
comp.lang.pascal	Discussion about Pascal.
comp.lang.perl		Discussion of Larry Wall's Perl system.
comp.lang.postscript	The PostScript Page Description Language.
comp.lang.prolog	Discussion about PROLOG.
comp.lang.scheme	The Scheme Programming language.
comp.lang.sigplan	Info & announcements from ACM SIGPLAN. (Moderated)
comp.lang.smalltalk	Discussion about Smalltalk 80.
comp.lang.vhdl		VHSIC Hardware Description Language, IEEE 1076/87.
comp.laser-printers	Laser printers, hardware & software. (Moderated)
comp.lsi		Large scale integrated circuits.
comp.lsi.testing	Testing of electronic circuits.
comp.mail.elm		Discussion and fixes for ELM mail system.
comp.mail.headers	Gatewayed from the Internet header-people list.
comp.mail.maps		Various maps, including UUCP maps. (Moderated)
comp.mail.mh		The UCI version of the Rand Message Handling system.
comp.mail.misc		General discussions about computer mail.
comp.mail.mush		The Mail User's Shell (MUSH).
comp.mail.sendmail	Configuring and using the BSD sendmail agent.
comp.mail.uucp		Mail in the uucp network environment.
comp.misc		General topics about computers not covered elsewhere.
comp.multimedia		Interactive multimedia technologies of all kinds.
comp.newprod		Announcements of new products of interest. (Moderated)
comp.object		Object-oriented programming and languages.
comp.org.acm		Topics about the Association for Computing Machinery.
comp.org.decus		Digital Equipment Computer Users' Society newsgroup.
comp.org.fidonet	FidoNews digest, official news of FidoNet Assoc. (Moderated)
comp.org.ieee		Issues and announcements about the IEEE & its members.
comp.org.sug		Talk about/for the The Sun User's Group.
comp.org.usenix		USENIX Association events and announcements.
comp.org.usenix.roomshare	Finding lodging during Usenix conferences.
comp.os.coherent	Discussion and support of the Coherent operating system.
comp.os.cpm		Discussion about the CP/M operating system.
comp.os.mach		The MACH OS from CMU & other places.
comp.os.minix		Discussion of Tanenbaum's MINIX system.
comp.os.misc		General OS-oriented discussion not carried elsewhere.
comp.os.msdos.apps	Discussion of applications that run under MS-DOS.
comp.os.msdos.desqview	QuarterDeck's Desqview and related products.
comp.os.msdos.misc	Miscellaneous topics about MS-DOS machines.
comp.os.msdos.programmer	Programming MS-DOS machines.
comp.os.os2.apps	Discussions of applications under OS/2.
comp.os.os2.misc	Miscellaneous topics about the OS/2 system.
comp.os.os2.programmer	Programming OS/2 machines.
comp.os.os9		Discussions about the os9 operating system.
comp.os.research	Operating systems and related areas. (Moderated)
comp.os.vms		DEC's VAX* line of computers & VMS.
comp.os.xinu		The XINU operating system from Purdue (D. Comer).
comp.parallel		Massively parallel hardware/software. (Moderated)
comp.periphs		Peripheral devices.
comp.periphs.scsi	Discussion of SCSI-based peripheral devices.
comp.protocols.appletalk	Applebus hardware & software.
comp.protocols.ibm	Networking with IBM mainframes.
comp.protocols.iso	The ISO protocol stack.
comp.protocols.kerberos	The Kerberos authentication server.
comp.protocols.kermit	Info about the Kermit package. (Moderated)
comp.protocols.misc	Various forms and types of FTP protocol.
comp.protocols.nfs	Discussion about the Network File System protocol.
comp.protocols.tcp-ip	TCP and IP network protocols.
comp.protocols.tcp-ip.ibmpc	TCP/IP for IBM(-like) personal computers.
comp.realtime		Issues related to real-time computing.
comp.research.japan	The nature of research in Japan. (Moderated)
comp.risks		Risks to the public from computers & users. (Moderated)
comp.robotics		All aspects of robots and their applications.
comp.simulation		Simulation methods, problems, uses. (Moderated)
comp.society		The impact of technology on society. (Moderated)
comp.society.development	Computer technology in developing countries.
comp.society.folklore	Computer folklore & culture, past & present. (Moderated)
comp.society.futures	Events in technology affecting future computing.
comp.software-eng	Software Engineering and related topics.
comp.sources.3b1	Source code-only postings for the AT&T 3b1. (Moderated)
comp.sources.acorn	Source code-only postings for the Acorn. (Moderated)
comp.sources.amiga	Source code-only postings for the Amiga. (Moderated)
comp.sources.apple2	Source code and discussion for the Apple2. (Moderated)
comp.sources.atari.st	Source code-only postings for the Atari ST. (Moderated)
comp.sources.bugs	Bug reports, fixes, discussion for posted sources.
comp.sources.d		For any discussion of source postings.
comp.sources.games	Postings of recreational software. (Moderated)
comp.sources.games.bugs	Bug reports and fixes for posted game software.
comp.sources.hp48	Programs for the HP48 and HP28 calculators. (Moderated)
comp.sources.mac	Software for the Apple Macintosh. (Moderated)
comp.sources.misc	Posting of software. (Moderated)
comp.sources.reviewed	Source code evaluated by peer review. (Moderated)
comp.sources.sun	Software for Sun workstations. (Moderated)
comp.sources.unix	Postings of complete, UNIX-oriented sources. (Moderated)
comp.sources.wanted	Requests for software and fixes.
comp.sources.x		Software for the X windows system. (Moderated)
comp.specification	Languages and methodologies for formal specification.
comp.specification.z	Discussion about the formal specification notation Z.
comp.std.c		Discussion about C language standards.
comp.std.c++		Discussion about C++ language, library, standards.
comp.std.internat	Discussion about international standards.
comp.std.misc		Discussion about various standards.
comp.std.mumps		Discussion for the X11.1 committee on Mumps. (Moderated)
comp.std.unix		Discussion for the P1003 committee on UNIX. (Moderated)
comp.sw.components	Software components and related technology.
comp.sys.3b1		Discussion and support of AT&T 7300/3B1/UnixPC.
comp.sys.acorn		Discussion on Acorn and ARM-based computers.
comp.sys.alliant	Info and discussion about Alliant computers.
comp.sys.amiga.advocacy	Why an Amiga is better than XYZ.
comp.sys.amiga.announce	Announcements about the Amiga. (Moderated)
comp.sys.amiga.applications	Miscellaneous applications.
comp.sys.amiga.audio	Music, MIDI, speech synthesis, other sounds.
comp.sys.amiga.datacomm	Methods of getting bytes in and out.
comp.sys.amiga.emulations	Various hardware & software emulators.
comp.sys.amiga.games	Discussion of games for the Commodore Amiga.
comp.sys.amiga.graphics	Charts, graphs, pictures, etc.
comp.sys.amiga.hardware	Amiga computer hardware, Q&A, reviews, etc.
comp.sys.amiga.introduction	Group for newcomers to Amigas.
comp.sys.amiga.marketplace	Where to find it, prices, etc.
comp.sys.amiga.misc	Discussions not falling in another Amiga group.
comp.sys.amiga.multimedia	Animations, video, & multimedia.
comp.sys.amiga.programmer	Developers & hobbyists discuss code.
comp.sys.amiga.reviews		Reviews of Amiga software, hardware. (Moderated)
comp.sys.apollo		Apollo computer systems.
comp.sys.apple2		Discussion about Apple II micros.
comp.sys.atari.8bit	Discussion about 8 bit Atari micros.
comp.sys.atari.st	Discussion about 16 bit Atari micros.
comp.sys.atari.st.tech	Technical discussions of Atari ST hard/software.
comp.sys.att		Discussions about AT&T microcomputers.
comp.sys.cbm		Discussion about Commodore micros.
comp.sys.concurrent	The Concurrent/Masscomp line of computers. (Moderated)
comp.sys.dec		Discussions about DEC computer systems.
comp.sys.dec.micro	DEC Micros (Rainbow, Professional 350/380)
comp.sys.encore		Encore's MultiMax computers.
comp.sys.hp		Discussion about Hewlett-Packard equipment.
comp.sys.ibm.pc.misc	Discussion about IBM personal computers.
comp.sys.ibm.pc.digest	The IBM PC, PC-XT, and PC-AT. (Moderated)
comp.sys.ibm.pc.hardware	XT/AT/EISA hardware, any vendor.
comp.sys.ibm.pc.rt	Topics related to IBM's RT computer.
comp.sys.ibm.ps2.hardware	Microchannel hardware, any vendor.
comp.sys.intel		Discussions about Intel systems and parts.
comp.sys.isis		The ISIS distributed system from Cornell.
comp.sys.laptops	Laptop (portable) computers.
comp.sys.m6809		Discussion about 6809's.
comp.sys.m68k		Discussion about 68k's.
comp.sys.m68k.pc	Discussion about 68k-based PCs. (Moderated)
comp.sys.m88k		Discussion about 88k-based computers.
comp.sys.mac.announce	Important notices for Macintosh users. (Moderated)
comp.sys.mac.apps	Discussions of Macintosh applications.
comp.sys.mac.comm	Discussion of Macintosh communications.
comp.sys.mac.digest	Apple Macintosh: info&uses, but no programs. (Moderated)
comp.sys.mac.games	Discussions of games on the Macintosh.
comp.sys.mac.hardware	Macintosh hardware issues & discussions.
comp.sys.mac.hypercard	The Macintosh Hypercard: info & uses.
comp.sys.mac.misc	General discussions about the Apple Macintosh.
comp.sys.mac.programmer	Discussion by people programming the Apple Macintosh.
comp.sys.mac.system	Discussions of Macintosh system software.
comp.sys.mac.wanted	Postings of "I want XYZ for my Mac."
comp.sys.mips		Systems based on MIPS chips.
comp.sys.misc		Discussion about computers of all kinds.
comp.sys.ncr		Discussion about NCR computers.
comp.sys.next		NeXT's workstations, peripherals, and software.
comp.sys.next.announce	Announcements related to the NeXT computer system. (Moderated)
comp.sys.next.misc	General discussion about the NeXT computer system.
comp.sys.next.programmer	NeXT related programming issues.
comp.sys.next.sysadmin	Discussions related to NeXT system administration.
comp.sys.nsc.32k	National Semiconductor 32000 series chips.
comp.sys.novell		Discussion of Novell Netware products.
comp.sys.palmtops	Super-powered calculators the palm of your hand.
comp.sys.proteon	Proteon gateway products.
comp.sys.pyramid	Pyramid 90x computers.
comp.sys.ridge		Ridge 32 computers and ROS.
comp.sys.sequent	Sequent systems, (Balance and Symmetry).
comp.sys.sgi		Silicon Graphics's Iris workstations and software.
comp.sys.sun		Sun "workstation" computers. (Moderated)
comp.sys.tahoe		CCI 6/32, Harris HCX/7, & Sperry 7000 computers.
comp.sys.tandy		Discussion about TRS-80's.
comp.sys.ti		Discussion about Texas Instruments.
comp.sys.transputer	The Transputer computer and OCCAM language.
comp.sys.xerox		Xerox 1100 workstations and protocols.
comp.sys.zenith.z100	The Zenith Z-100 (Heath H-100) family of computers.
comp.terminals		All sorts of terminals.
comp.text		Text processing issues and methods.
comp.text.desktop	Technology & techniques of desktop publishing.
comp.text.sgml		ISO 8879 SGML, structured documents, markup languages.
comp.text.tex		Discussion about the TeX and LaTeX systems & macros.
comp.theory.info-retrieval	Information Retrieval topics. (Moderated)
comp.unix.admin		Administering a Unix-based system.
comp.unix.aix		IBM's version of UNIX.
comp.unix.amiga		Minix, SYSV4 and other *nix on an Amiga.
comp.unix.aux		The version of UNIX for Apple Macintosh II computers.
comp.unix.internals	Discussions on hacking UNIX internals.
comp.unix.large		UNIX on mainframes and in large networks.
comp.unix.misc		Various topics that don't fit other groups.
comp.unix.msdos		MS-DOS running under UNIX by whatever means.
comp.unix.programmer	Q&A for people programming under Unix.
comp.unix.questions	UNIX neophytes group.
comp.unix.shell		Using and programming the Unix shell.
comp.unix.sysv286	UNIX System V (not XENIX) on the '286.
comp.unix.sysv386	Versions of System V (not Xenix) on Intel 80386-based boxes.
comp.unix.ultrix	Discussions about DEC's Ultrix.
comp.unix.wizards	Questions for only true Unix wizards.
comp.unix.xenix.misc	General discussions regarding XENIX (except SCO).
comp.unix.xenix.sco	XENIX versions from the Santa Cruz Operation.
comp.windows.interviews	The InterViews object-oriented windowing system.
comp.windows.misc	Various issues about windowing systems.
comp.windows.ms		Window systems under MS/DOS.
comp.windows.ms.programmer	Writing apps for MS Windows.
comp.windows.news	Sun Microsystems' NeWS window system.
comp.windows.open-look	Discussion about the Open Look GUI.
comp.windows.x		Discussion about the X Window System.
comp.virus		Computer viruses & security. (Moderated)

misc.activism.progressive	Information for Progressive activists. (Moderated)
misc.consumers		Consumer interests, product reviews, etc.
misc.consumers.house	Discussion about owning and maintaining a house.
misc.education		Discussion of the educational system.
misc.emerg-services	Forum for paramedics & other first responders.
misc.entrepreneurs	Discussion on operating a business.
misc.fitness		Physical fitness, exercise, etc.
misc.forsale		Short, tasteful postings about items for sale.
misc.forsale.computers	Computers and computer equipment for sale.
misc.handicap		Items of interest for/about the handicapped. (Moderated)
misc.headlines		Current interest: drug testing, terrorism, etc.
misc.invest		Investments and the handling of money.
misc.jobs.contract	Discussions about contract labor.
misc.jobs.misc		Discussion about employment, workplaces, careers.
misc.jobs.offered	Announcements of positions available.
misc.jobs.resumes	Postings of resumes and "situation wanted" articles.
misc.kids		Children, their behavior and activities.
misc.legal		Legalities and the ethics of law.
misc.misc		Various discussions not fitting in any other group.
misc.news.southasia	News from Bangladesh, India, Nepal, etc. (Moderated)
misc.rural		Devoted to issues concerning rural living.
misc.security		Security in general, not just computers. (Moderated)
misc.taxes		Tax laws and advice.
misc.test		For testing of network software.  Very boring.
misc.wanted		Requests for things that are needed (NOT software).
misc.writing		Discussion of writing in all of its forms.

news.admin		Comments directed to news administrators.
news.announce.conferences	Calls for papers and conference announcements. (Moderated)
news.announce.important	General announcements of interest to all. (Moderated)
news.announce.newgroups	Calls for newgroups & announcements of same. (Moderated)
news.announce.newusers	Explanatory postings for new users. (Moderated)
news.config		Postings of system down times and interruptions.
news.groups		Discussions and lists of newsgroups.
news.lists		News-related statistics and lists. (Moderated)
news.lists.ps-maps	Maps relating to USENET traffic flows. (Moderated)
news.misc		Discussions of USENET itself.
news.newsites		Postings of new site announcements.
news.newusers.questions	Q & A for users new to the Usenet.
news.software.anu-news	VMS B-news software from Australian National Univ.
news.software.b		Discussion about B-news-compatible software.
news.software.nn	Discussion about the "nn" news reader package.
news.software.notes	Notesfile software from the Univ. of Illinois.
news.software.readers	Discussion of software used to read network news.
news.sysadmin		Comments directed to system administrators.

rec.aquaria		Keeping fish and aquaria as a hobby.
rec.arts.animation	Discussion of various kinds of animation.
rec.arts.anime		Japanese animation fen discussion.
rec.arts.bodyart	Tattoos and body decoration discussions.
rec.arts.books		Books of all genres, and the publishing industry.
rec.arts.cinema		Discussion of the art of cinema. (Moderated)
rec.arts.comics		Comic books and strips, graphic novels, sequential art.
rec.arts.dance		Any aspects of dance not covered in another newsgroup.
rec.arts.disney		Discussion of any Disney-related subjects.
rec.arts.drwho		Discussion about Dr. Who.
rec.arts.erotica	Erotic fiction and verse. (Moderated)
rec.arts.fine		Fine arts & artists.
rec.arts.int-fiction	Discussions about interactive fiction.
rec.arts.misc		Discussions about the arts not in other groups.
rec.arts.movies		Discussions of movies and movie making.
rec.arts.movies.reviews	Reviews of movies. (Moderated)
rec.arts.poems		For the posting of poems.
rec.arts.sf-lovers	Science fiction lovers' newsgroup.
rec.arts.sf-reviews	Reviews of science fiction/fantasy/horror works. (Moderated)
rec.arts.startrek	Star Trek, the TV shows and the movies.
rec.arts.startrek.info	Information about the universe of Star Trek. (Moderated)
rec.arts.theatre	Discussion of all aspects of stage work & theatre.
rec.arts.tv		The boob tube, its history, and past and current shows.
rec.arts.tv.soaps	Postings about soap operas.
rec.arts.tv.uk		Discussions of telly shows from the UK.
rec.arts.wobegon	"A Prairie Home Companion" radio show discussion.
rec.audio		High fidelity audio.
rec.audio.car		Discussions of automobile audio systems.
rec.audio.high-end	High-end audio systems. (Moderated)
rec.autos		Automobiles, automotive products and laws.
rec.autos.driving	Driving automobiles.
rec.autos.sport		Discussion of organized, legal auto competitions.
rec.autos.tech		Technical aspects of automobiles, et. al.
rec.autos.vw		Issues pertaining to Volkswagon products.
rec.aviation		Aviation rules, means, and methods.
rec.backcountry		Activities in the Great Outdoors.
rec.bicycles		Bicycles, related products and laws.
rec.birds		Hobbyists interested in bird watching.
rec.boats		Hobbyists interested in boating.
rec.boats.paddle	Talk about any boats with oars, paddles, etc.
rec.climbing		Climbing techniques, competition announcements, etc.
rec.collecting		Discussion among collectors of many things.
rec.crafts.misc		Handiwork arts not covered elsewhere.
rec.crafts.textiles	Sewing, weaving, knitting and other fiber arts.
rec.equestrian		Discussion of things equestrian.
rec.folk-dancing	Folk dances, dancers, and dancing.
rec.food.cooking	Food, cooking, cookbooks, and recipes.
rec.food.drink		Wines and spirits.
rec.food.recipes	Recipes for interesting food and drink. (Moderated)
rec.food.restaurants	Discussion of dining out.
rec.food.veg		Vegetarians.
rec.gambling		Articles on games of chance & betting.
rec.games.board		Discussion and hints on board games.
rec.games.board.ce	The Cosmic Encounter board game.
rec.games.bridge	Hobbyists interested in bridge.
rec.games.chess		Chess & computer chess.
rec.games.design	Discussion of game design related issues.
rec.games.empire	Discussion and hints about Empire.
rec.games.frp		Discussion about Role Playing games.
rec.games.go		Discussion about Go.
rec.games.hack		Discussion, hints, etc. about the Hack game.
rec.games.misc		Games and computer games.
rec.games.moria		Comments, hints, and info about the Moria game.
rec.games.mud		Various aspects of multi-users computer games.
rec.games.pbm		Discussion about Play by Mail games.
rec.games.pinball	Discussing pinball-related issues.
rec.games.programmer	Discussion of adventure game programming.
rec.games.rogue		Discussion and hints about Rogue.
rec.games.trivia	Discussion about trivia.
rec.games.video		Discussion about video games.
rec.games.video.arcade	Discussions about coin-operated video games.
rec.gardens		Gardening, methods and results.
rec.guns		Discussions about firearms. (Moderated)
rec.humor		Jokes and the like.  May be somewhat offensive.
rec.humor.d		Discussions on the content of rec.humor articles.
rec.humor.funny		Jokes that are funny (in the moderator's opinion). (Moderated)
rec.hunting		Discussions about hunting. (Moderated)
rec.mag			Magazine summaries, tables of contents, etc.
rec.martial-arts	Discussion of the various martial art forms.
rec.misc		General topics about recreational/participant sports.
rec.models.rc		Radio-controlled models for hobbyists.
rec.models.rockets	Model rockets for hobbyists.
rec.motorcycles		Motorcycles and related products and laws.
rec.music.afro-latin	Music with afro-latin influences.
rec.music.beatles	Postings about the Fab Four & their music.
rec.music.bluenote	Discussion of jazz, blues, and related types of music.
rec.music.cd		CDs -- availability and other discussions.
rec.music.christian	Christian music, both contemporary and traditional.
rec.music.classical	Discussion about classical music.
rec.music.country.western	   C&W music, performers, performances, etc.
rec.music.dementia	Discussion of comedy and novelty music.
rec.music.dylan		Discussion of Bob's works & music.
rec.music.early		Discussion of pre-classical European music.
rec.music.folk		Folks discussing folk music of various sorts.
rec.music.funky		Funk, rap, hip-hop, house, soul, r&b and related.
rec.music.gaffa		Discussion of Kate Bush & other alternative music. (Moderated)
rec.music.gdead		A group for (Grateful) Dead-heads.
rec.music.industrial	Discussion of all industrial-related music styles.
rec.music.makers	For performers and their discussions.
rec.music.misc		Music lovers' group.
rec.music.newage	"New Age" music discussions.
rec.music.reviews	Reviews of music of all genres and mediums. (Moderated)
rec.music.synth		Synthesizers and computer music.
rec.music.video		Discussion of music videos and music video software.
rec.nude		Hobbyists interested in naturist/nudist activities.
rec.org.sca		Society for Creative Anachronism.
rec.pets		Pets, pet care, and household animals in general.
rec.pets.cats	        Discussion about domestic cats.
rec.pets.dogs		Any and all subjects relating to dogs as pets.
rec.photo		Hobbyists interested in photography.
rec.puzzles		Puzzles, problems, and quizzes.
rec.pyrotechnics	Fireworks, rocketry, safety, & other topics.
rec.radio.amateur.misc	Amateur radio practices, contests, events, rules, etc.
rec.radio.amateur.packet	   Discussion about packet radio setups.
rec.radio.amateur.policy	   Radio use & regulation policy.
rec.radio.cb		Citizen-band radio.
rec.radio.noncomm	Topics relating to noncommercial radio.
rec.radio.shortwave	Shortwave radio enthusiasts.
rec.radio.swap		ffers to trade and swap radio equipment.
rec.railroad		Real and model train fans' newsgroup.
rec.running		Running for enjoyment, sport, exercise, etc.
rec.scuba		Hobbyists interested in SCUBA diving.
rec.skiing		Hobbyists interested in snow skiing.
rec.skydiving		Hobbyists interested in skydiving.
rec.sport.baseball	Discussion about baseball.
rec.sport.basketball.college	Hoops on the collegiate level.
rec.sport.basketball.misc	Discussion about basketball.
rec.sport.basketball.pro	Talk of professional basketball.
rec.sport.cricket	Discussion about the sport of cricket.
rec.sport.disc		Discussion of flying disc based sports.
rec.sport.football.college	US-style college football.
rec.sport.football.misc	Discussion about American-style football.
rec.sport.football.pro	US-style professional football.
rec.sport.golf		Discussion about all aspects of golfing.
rec.sport.hockey	Discussion about hockey.
rec.sport.misc		Spectator sports.
rec.sport.pro-wrestling	Discussion about professional wrestling.
rec.sport.rugby		Discussion about the game of rugby.
rec.sport.soccer	Discussion about soccer (Association Football).
rec.sport.tennis	Things related to the sport of tennis.
rec.sport.volleyball	Discussion about volleyball.
rec.travel		Traveling all over the world.
rec.video		Video and video components.
rec.video.satellite	Getting shows via satellite.
rec.windsurfing		Riding the waves as a hobby.
rec.woodworking		Hobbyists interested in woodworking.

sci.aeronautics		The science of aeronautics & related technology.
sci.aquaria		Only scientifically-oriented postings about aquaria.
sci.archaeology		Studying antiquities of the world.
sci.astro		Astronomy discussions and information.
sci.bio			Biology and related sciences.
sci.chem		Chemistry and related sciences.
sci.crypt		Different methods of data en/decryption.
sci.econ		The science of economics.
sci.edu			The science of education.
sci.electronics		Circuits, theory, electrons and discussions.
sci.energy		Discussions about energy, science & technology.
sci.engr		Technical discussions about engineering tasks.
sci.engr.chem		All aspects of chemical engineering.
sci.environment		Discussions about the environment and ecology.
sci.geo.fluids		Discussion of geophysical fluid dynamics.
sci.geo.geology		Discussion of solid earth sciences.
sci.geo.meteorology	Discussion of meteorology and related topics.
sci.lang		Natural languages, communication, etc.
sci.lang.japan		The Japanese language, both spoken and written.
sci.logic		Logic -- math, philosophy & computational aspects.
sci.math		Mathematical discussions and pursuits.
sci.math.stat		Statistics discussion.
sci.math.symbolic	Symbolic algebra discussion.
sci.med			Medicine and its related products and regulations.
sci.med.aids		AIDS: treatment, pathology/biology of HIV, prevention. (Moderated)
sci.med.physics		Issues of physics in medical testing/care.
sci.military		Discussion about science & the military. (Moderated)
sci.misc		Short-lived discussions on subjects in the sciences.
sci.nanotech		Self-reproducing molecular-scale machines. (Moderated)
sci.optics		Discussion relating to the science of optics.
sci.philosophy.tech	Technical philosophy: math, science, logic, etc.
sci.physics		Physical laws, properties, etc.
sci.physics.fusion	Info on fusion, esp. "cold" fusion.
sci.psychology		Topics related to psychology.
sci.psychology.digest	PSYCOLOQUY: Refereed Psychology Journal and Newsletter. (Moderated)
sci.research		Research methods, funding, ethics, and whatever.
sci.skeptic		Skeptics discussing pseudo-science.
sci.space		Space, space programs, space related research, etc.
sci.space.shuttle	The space shuttle and the STS program.
sci.virtual-worlds	Modelling the universe. (Moderated)

soc.college		College, college activities, campus life, etc.
soc.college.grad	General issues related to graduate schools.
soc.college.gradinfo	Information about graduate schools.
soc.couples		Discussions for couples (cf. soc.singles).
soc.culture.african	Discussions about Africa & things African.
soc.culture.african.american	Discussions about Afro-American issues.
soc.culture.arabic	Technological & cultural issues, *not* politics.
soc.culture.asean	Countries of the Assoc. of SE Asian Nations.
soc.culture.asian.american	Issues & discussion about Asian-Americans.
soc.culture.australian		Australian culture and society.
soc.culture.bangladesh	Issues & discussion about Bangladesh.
soc.culture.british	Issues about Britain & those of British descent.
soc.culture.canada	Discussions of Canada and its people.
soc.culture.china	About China and Chinese culture.
soc.culture.celtic	Group about Celts (*not* basketball!).
soc.culture.europe	Discussing all aspects of all-European society.
soc.culture.filipino	Group about the Filipino culture.
soc.culture.french	French culture, history, and related discussions.
soc.culture.german	Discussions about German culture and history.
soc.culture.greek	Group about Greeks.
soc.culture.hongkong	Discussions pertaining to Hong Kong.
soc.culture.indian	Group for discussion about India & things Indian.
soc.culture.iranian	Discussions about Iran and things Iranian/Persian.
soc.culture.italian	The Italian people and their culture.
soc.culture.japan	Everything Japanese, except the Japanese language.
soc.culture.jewish	Jewish culture & religion. (cf. talk.politics.mideast)
soc.culture.korean	Discussions about Korean & things Korean.
soc.culture.latin-america	Topics about Latin-America.
soc.culture.lebanon	Discussion about things Lebanese.
soc.culture.magyar	The Hungarian people & their culture.
soc.culture.misc	Group for discussion about other cultures.
soc.culture.nepal	Discussion of people and things in & from Nepal.
soc.culture.new-zealand	Discussion of topics related to New Zealand.
soc.culture.nordic	Discussion about culture up north.
soc.culture.pakistan	Topics of discussion about Pakistan.
soc.culture.polish	Polish culture, Polish past, and Polish politics.
soc.culture.soviet	Topics relating to Russian or Soviet culture.
soc.culture.spain	Discussion of culture on the Iberian peninsula.
soc.culture.sri-lanka	Things & people from Sri Lanka.
soc.culture.taiwan	Discussion about things Taiwanese.
soc.culture.thai	Thai people and their culture.
soc.culture.turkish	Discussion about things Turkish.
soc.culture.vietnamese	Issues and discussions of Vietnamese culture.
soc.culture.yugoslavia	Discussions of Yugoslavia and its people.
soc.feminism		Discussion of feminism & feminist issues. (Moderated)
soc.history		Discussions of things historical.
soc.men			Issues related to men, their problems & relationships.
soc.misc		Socially-oriented topics not in other groups.
soc.motss		Issues pertaining to homosexuality.
soc.net-people		Announcements, requests, etc. about people on the net.
soc.politics		Political problems, systems, solutions. (Moderated)
soc.politics.arms-d	Arms discussion digest. (Moderated)
soc.religion.christian	Christianity and related topics. (Moderated)
soc.religion.eastern	Discussions of Eastern religions. (Moderated)
soc.religion.islam	Discussions of the Islamic faith. (Moderated)
soc.rights.human	Human rights & activism (e.g., Amnesty International).
soc.roots		Genealogical matters.
soc.singles		Newsgroup for single people, their activities, etc.
soc.veterans		Social issues relating to military veterans.
soc.women		Issues related to women, their problems & relationships.

talk.abortion		All sorts of discussions and arguments on abortion.
talk.bizarre		The unusual, bizarre, curious, and often stupid.
talk.environment	Discussion the state of the environment & what to do.
talk.origins		Evolution versus creationism (sometimes hot!).
talk.philosophy.misc	Philosophical musings on all topics.
talk.politics.drugs	The politics of drug issues.
talk.politics.guns	The politics of firearm ownership and (mis)use.
talk.politics.mideast	Discussion & debate over Middle Eastern events.
talk.politics.misc	Political discussions and ravings of all kinds.
talk.politics.soviet	Discussion of Soviet politics, domestic and foreign.
talk.politics.theory	Theory of politics and political systems.
talk.rape		Discussions on stopping rape; not to be crossposted.
talk.religion.misc	Religious, ethical, & moral implications.
talk.religion.newage	Esoteric and minority religions & philosophies.
talk.rumors		For the posting of rumors.

--------------------
* UNIX is a registered trademark of UNIX System Laboratories, Inc.
* DEC and Ultrix are Trademarks of the Digital Equipment Corporation.
* VAX is a Trademark of the Digital Equipment Corporation.
* Ada is a registered Trademark of the Ada Joint Program Office of the
   United States Department of Defense.


-- 
Gene Spafford
NSF/Purdue/U of Florida  Software Engineering Research Center,
Dept. of Computer Sciences, Purdue University, W. Lafayette IN 47907-1398
Internet:  spaf@cs.purdue.edu	phone:  (317) 494-7825
