







 
 
 
 
 
 












                   Minnesota Regional Network


                             Bylaws 












                       September 23, 1987





























Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            2
September 23, 1987

Article I.      Organization Name
 
1.0     The name of the organization is the 
 
                MINNESOTA REGIONAL NETWORK 
 
                or 
 
                MRnet. 
 
 
Article II.     Purpose

2.0     The membership of the MINNESOTA REGIONAL NETWORK has
        joined together to: 
 
        2.0.1   Promote connectivity to support the educational,
                research, or development endeavors by its members
                and their clients. 
 
        2.0.2   Pursue connections to other networks as deemed
                appropriate by its members. 
 
        2.0.3   Provide a forum for discussion of networking
                issues and concerns. 
 
 
Article III.    Membership
 
3.0     General:  MRnet shall be made up of Member Institutions,
        where memberships granted to those applying institutions
        whose proposed use of MRnet is approved by the MRnet
        Member Institutions. 
 
3.1     Criterion for membership: A company, organization, or
        institution which subscribes to the purpose stated in
        Article II. 
 
3.2     Applications for membership: 
 
        3.2.1   An Institution applying for membership must
                submit an application to the Secretary of the
                Executive Committee who shall process all
                applications in accordance with MRNet policies
                and applicable Bylaws.  The application must
                adequately show the Institution's ability to meet
                all requirements stated in section 3.3. 

        3.2.2   Applications for membership are to be reviewed at
                duly convened meetings of the Executive and
                Technical/Operations Committees.  The Executive
                Committee will submit its recommendations to the











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            3
September 23, 1987

                entire MRnet membership.  The Executive Committee
                shall also set a deadline for Institutional
                discussion and voting on approval of the
                application.  The deadline must be at least
                thirty days and  not exceed six months.

        3.2.3   An applicant shall become a member upon receiving
                a two-thirds (2/3) majority approval from the
                Institutional Members, with any Institutions
                abstaining counted as affirmative votes.  A
                minute containing the vote and any pertinent
                discussion shall be generated by the Secretary
                and sent to the applying institution. 

3.3     Requirements for membership: 
 
        3.3.1   Network usage strategy: Institutions applying for
                membership must submit plans describing their
                intended usage of MRnet, and how this usage
                relates to the purpose of MRnet as described in
                Article II.

        3.3.2   Proposal for regional network connection: 
                Applicants must submit plans to provide hardware,
                communications facilities, and software for
                linking to the MRnet physical network. 

        3.3.3   Naming of representatives:  Applications must
                name Institutional and Technical Representatives. 
                These persons will be point contacts for any
                distribution of MRnet business. 

                3.3.3.1  Institutional:  This person is
                         responsible for communicating policy
                         concerns to the Member Institution, and
                         provide MRnet with his or her
                         Institution's position on issues of
                         importance.  This person is responsible
                         for the Institution's vote when called
                         for by the Chair of the Executive
                         Committee.

                3.3.3.2  Technical:  This person is responsible
                         for providing support to the
                         Institution's network link,
                         disseminating MRnet information to
                         end-users, and reporting on the status
                         of networking at the Member Institution.


        3.3.4   Institutional support:  The Institution must
                state that it will provide the manpower and











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            4
September 23, 1987

                equipment necessary to maintain an adequate link
                to MRnet.  Institutions are responsible for their
                own internal networks and for support of their
                own user community. 
 
        3.3.5   Network support: The Institution must be able to
                provide limited support of Network
                trouble-shooting, error correction, gateway
                maintenance, and other duties pertaining to
                running MRnet efficiently. 

        3.3.6   Limitation of liability:  An officer of each
                Institution shall sign an agreement to hold
                MRnet, its officers, and its members harmless
                from any liability arising from lost profits,
                loss of opportunity, or any other loss which may
                result from the use of, or lack of use of, MRnet.

3.4     Rights of membership: 
 
        3.4.1   Use of MRnet:  Member Institutions may send and
                receive data on MRnet's physical network for the
                purposes stated in Article II. 

        3.4.2   Use of gateways/links to other networks:  Members
                may use the MRnet network to gain access to all
                other networks with which it connects, directly
                or indirectly.  Any use of such networks is
                subject to the rules and Bylaws of all
                intermediate networks and gateways. 

        3.4.4   MRnet voting:  As required by the Bylaws or
                requested by the Chair of the Executive
                Committee, when a vote is called, each Member
                Institution is allowed one (1) vote, for which
                the Institutional Representative is responsible. 

        3.4.5   Elected office:  Institutional and Technical
                Representatives from Member Institutions shall
                have the right to hold elected office. 

3.5     Membership dues: 

        3.5.1   Upon two-thirds (2/3) approval by Institutional
                vote, with abstentions counting as affirmative
                votes, MRnet may impose a dues structure on its
                Institutional Members, to defray the costs of
                MRnet business as identified in the annual
                budget.

        3.5.2   Membership dues are payable in full on the first
                day of each fiscal year for existing Members. 











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            5
September 23, 1987

                Membership dues for new members are due when they
                are accepted, on a pro-rated basis. 

3.6     Membership responsibilities: 

        3.6.1   Each Member Institution, when using MRnet, must
                abide by all rules and Bylaws in force at that
                time.  They must also abide by all cooperative
                agreements as defined by the Executive Committee
                in conjunction with other network organizations. 

        3.6.2   Each Member Institution must provide local
                network trouble- shooting support as best as it
                is able. 

        3.6.3   Each Member Institution must support MRnet in its
                end-user services, daily operations,
                trouble-shooting, and technical management. 

3.7     Termination of membership: 

        3.7.1   Voluntary:  An Institution may terminate
                membership at any time; however, they must
                fulfill all obligations to MRnet and assist in
                the transfer of these obligations to another
                institution.

        3.7.2   Involuntary:  If a Member Institution does not
                act in accordance with standing MRnet rules or
                Bylaws, or abuses its right of network use, the
                Executive Committee shall send a letter of
                warning to its Institutional Representative.  If
                the abuses persist, the Committee shall then
                recommend disqualification of the Institution's
                membership, and if warranted, disconnect the
                Institution's physical link to MRnet.   

                3.7.2.1  An Institutional vote will be called to
                         formally terminate the membership, with
                         a two-thirds vote of the entire
                         Membership required to revoke
                         membership.  A deadline must be set that
                         will be at least 30 days and not later
                         than 6 months.  A minute containing the
                         vote and any pertinent discussion shall
                         be generated by the Secretary and sent
                         to the warned institution. 

        3.7.3   In the event of either a voluntary or involuntary
                termination, the terminating Member has no claim
                to assets held by MRnet. 












Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            6
September 23, 1987

 
Article IV.     Structure

4.0     General:  The activities of MRnet shall be administered
        by the Executive Committee, as advised by one standing
        committee, the Technical/Operations Committee.

4.1     Executive Committee: 
 
        4.1.1   The Executive Committee is responsible for the
                efficient administration of MRnet, as put forth
                in Article V. 
 
        4.1.2   The Executive Committee is composed of a Chair,
                Vice Chair, Treasurer, and Secretary. 
 
4.2     Technical/Operations Committee: 
 
        4.2.1   The Technical/Operations Committee shall be
                chaired by the Vice Chair of the Executive
                Committee. 
 
        4.2.2   The Technical/Operations Committee shall consist
                of the Technical Representatives from all Member
                Institutions. 
 
        4.2.3   The Technical/Operations Committee is responsible
                for advising and assisting the Executive
                Committee in managing the technical aspects of
                MRnet and providing review of proposed changes of
                the physical network topology.

4.3     Other committees: 

        4.3.1   The Executive Committee may recommend the
                formation of additional committees, either ad hoc
                or standing, and determine the charge of such
                committees.

        4.3.2   Ad hoc committees must have either a specific
                purpose or a date of termination associated with
                their formation. 

        4.3.3   Standing committees must be approved by amendment
                to these Bylaws. 


Article V.      MRnet Executive Committee

5.0     General: 

        5.0.1   The Executive Committee shall meet with regular











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            7
September 23, 1987

                frequency to oversee MRnet business. 

        5.0.2   Quorum:  At all meetings of the Executive
                Committee at least two-thirds (2/3) of the
                Committee's voting members must be present to act
                on MRnet business. 

5.1     Elected officers: 

        5.1.1   Four voting Executive Committee officers shall be
                elected from Member Institution's Institutional
                and Technical Representatives.  These officers
                will be elected as the Chair, Vice Chair,
                Secretary and Treasurer. 

        5.1.2   The term of office for an elected officer shall
                be one year, renewable by election. 

        5.1.3   Each term of office shall begin January 1. 

        5.1.4   In the event the Chair is not able to attend an
                Executive Board meeting, the Vice Chair shall act
                as chairman of the meeting. 

5.2     Other committees: 

        5.2.1   Standing committees may be assigned a voting seat
                on the Executive Committee, as part of their
                charter.  Such a change in the Executive
                Committee structure requires an amendment to
                these Bylaws. 

        5.2.2   Ad hoc and standing committees may be invited by
                the Executive Committee to select a non-voting
                representative to attend Committee meetings. 

5.3     Responsibilities of the Executive Committee: 

        5.3.1   The Committee shall represent the Membership with
                respect to MRnet activities and purposes set
                forth in these Bylaws, and in written policies of
                MRnet. 

        5.3.2   The Executive Committee shall establish
                committees and groups necessary to implement
                decisions and policies. 

        5.3.3   The Executive Committee shall create an annual
                budget based on a July 1 through June 30 fiscal
                year, and administer funds, as described by
                Article IX. 












Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            8
September 23, 1987

        5.3.4   The Executive Committee shall receive, review,
                and determine the disposition of applications for
                establishing Institutional Membership. 
        5.3.5   The Executive Committee shall establish
                procedures for the orderly operation of MRnet,
                its physical plant, use of funds, and information
                exchange. 

        5.3.6   The Executive committee shall make nominations
                and hold elections for vacancies on the MRnet
                Executive Committee as required by Article VI. 

        5.3.7   The Executive Committee shall interpret these
                Bylaws. 

        5.3.8   The Executive Committee shall seek to establish a
                Network Information Center to inform members and
                interested parties of MRnet activities. 

        5.3.9   The Executive Committee shall perform all other
                duties which customarily pertain to the
                administration of a regional wide-area network. 

5.4     Responsibilities of the Chair: 

        5.4.1   The Chair shall be responsible for presiding over
                Executive Committee and general business
                meetings. 

        5.4.2   The Chair shall act as official representative of
                MRnet in dealings with other network
                associations, institutions, and agencies. 

        5.4.3   The Chair shall provide for the discharge of
                necessary duties of absent members of the
                Executive Committee. 

        5.4.4   The Chair shall be responsible, with the
                Treasurer, for the treasury. 

        5.4.5   The Chair shall oversee all activities of the
                Executive Committee. 

        5.4.6   The Chair is responsible for organizing and
                coordinating general meetings.

5.5     Responsibilities of the Vice Chair: 

        5.5.1   The Vice Chair shall substitute for the Chair in
                his or her absence.

        5.5.2   The Vice Chair shall preside over meetings of the











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            9
September 23, 1987

                Technical/Operations Committee.

        5.5.3   With the Secretary, the Vice Chair shall oversee
                the Network Information Center. 

        5.5.4   The Vice Chair is responsible for insuring the
                network is functioning efficiently and standards
                are being followed. 

5.6     Responsibilities of the Treasurer: 

        5.6.1   The Treasurer shall maintain financial records,
                distribute funds properly authorized by the
                Executive Committee and assure compliance with
                terms and conditions of any outside funding. 

        5.6.2   The Treasurer shall consign with the Chair all
                financial and contractual obligations.

        5.6.3   With the Chair, the Treasurer is responsible for
                the Treasury. 
 
5.7     Responsibilities of the Secretary: 
 
        5.7.1   The Secretary shall take and distribute minutes
                of Executive Committee meetings. 

        5.7.2   The Secretary shall receive and distribute all
                inquiries made to the Executive Committee.  This
                role includes acting as the MRnet News Group
                Moderator.

        5.7.3   With the Vice Chair, the Secretary shall oversee
                the Network Information Center. 

        5.7.4   The Secretary shall insure that all Bylaws are
                being followed. 

        5.7.5   The Secretary is responsible to oversee all
                elections. 

Article VI.     Executive Committee Officer Elections
 
6.0     Nominations: 
 
        6.0.1   All MRnet Institutional and Technical
                Representatives shall be eligible to make
                nominations or be nominated for election to the
                Executive Committee. 
 
        6.0.2   Nominations shall be opened on or prior to
                October 1, at which time the Executive Committee











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            10
September 23, 1987

                shall present to the Membership a slate of at
                least one nominee for each vacant office and
                shall at that time call for additional
                nominations. 

        6.0.3   Nominations must be submitted in writing to the
                Secretary. 

        6.0.4   Nominations shall close November 1.

6.1     Elections: 
 
        6.1.1   General elections shall be held annually for all
                elected positions on December 1.  The Secretary
                of the Executive Committee shall distribute
                ballots to all Representatives no later than
                November 7.  Ballots must be returned to the
                Secretary before December 2. 
 
        6.1.2   The ballots of all elections will be counted
                within on week following the close of voting.  No
                ballots will be counted if received after
                December 1.  All candidates for office will be
                informed immediately of the results of the
                election by the Secretary of the Executive
                Committee. 

        6.1.3   Term of office shall begin January 1.  All terms
                of office shall be one year, except for the first
                election. 
 
        6.1.4   The First Election:  To allow for officer
                elections as soon as possible after the
                ratification of these Bylaws, the term of office
                for the first election shall be adjusted so it
                will conclude on December 31, and shall be no
                shorter than 6 months. 

        6.1.5   Special elections:  The Chair of the Executive
                Committee shall call special elections as
                determined necessary by the Executive Committee. 


Article VII.    Meetings

7.0     General meetings: 

        7.0.1   MRnet shall hold at least two meetings a year
                which will be in conjunction with an open
                business meeting. 
 
        7.0.2   At least one month notice shall be sent to all











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            11
September 23, 1987

                Representatives. 
 
7.1     Executive Committee meetings: 
 
        7.1.1   There shall be at least four Executive Committee
                meetings a year.  These meetings should be
                supplemented with communications within the
                Committee during the interim. 
 
        7.1.2   Executive Committee meetings are open to all
                Institutional and Technical Representatives and
                guests of the Executive Committee. 
                Representatives shall be notified in advance of
                meeting dates and locations. 
 
        7.1.3   The Chair may call emergency meetings. 
 
7.2     Standing committee meetings:  The standing committees
        shall meet at least four times a year.  In addition, the
        Executive Committee may call for emergency meetings of a
        standing committee.

Article VIII.   Amendments

8.0     General: 
 
        8.0.1   A ballot on an amendment to MRnet Bylaws may be
                initiated either by the Executive Committee or by
                petition of one-third (1/3) of the Institutional
                Members.
 
        8.0.2   All Member Institutions must have the opportunity
                to vote on amendments.  The Secretary shall
                prepare and send to each Institutional
                Representative a statement of the proposed
                amendments and a ballot, along with a specified
                due date.  The due date shall be at least thirty
                days from the time of delivery, but not more than
                six months.

8.1     Ratification:
 
        8.1.1   Amendments to these Bylaws must be approved by an
                affirmative vote of two-thirds of the entire
                Membership. 
 
        8.1.2   All ballots must be returned to the Secretary. 
                Any ballot not received within the specified date
                shall be considered an affirmative vote on all
                proposed amendments. 













Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            12
September 23, 1987

Article IX.     Financial Structure

9.0     General: 
 
        9.0.1   MRnet will initially operate as a not-for-profit
                organization.  MRnet intends to incorporate as a
                Minnesota not-for-profit corporation.
 
        9.0.2   Sources for funding may include membership dues,
                grants, cooperative agreements with other
                networks, and "payment-in-kind" services.
 
        9.0.3   All MRnet resources are available without charge
                to its Members, and to the members of networks
                affiliated with MRnet, except for annual
                membership dues. 
 
        9.0.4   Any MRnet expenditure above $1,000 requires the
                unanimous approval of the Executive Committee,
                with notification to Members.

        9.0.5   MRnet can only authorize the expenditure of funds
                in hand. 
 
 
Article X.      Network Standards

10.0    General: 

        10.0.1  MRnet shall adopt a set of standards to insure
                effective use of the network.

        10.0.2  The Executive Committee is responsible for the
                implementation and monitoring of all network
                standards. 
 
10.1    Topology: 
 
        10.1.1  The physical topology will consist of a central
                hub with communications lines to Member sites. 
 
        10.1.2  This hub shall exist in the Minneapolis/St. Paul
                area, preferably at a Member site. 
 
        10.1.3  The recommended manner of connection is one spoke
                per Institution.  Institutions may share a spoke
                upon mutual agreement.

        10.1.4  The MRnet physical network is considered to be
                only the hub and any other equipment acquired by
                MRnet used to carry network traffic.  MRnet is
                not responsible for the physical links to the hub











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            13
September 23, 1987

                by its Members.
 
10.2    MRnet protocols:
 
        10.2.1  The selected protocol for data communications
                shall be IP (Internet Protocol).  Unless approved
                by the Executive Committee, no other protocol
                shall be transmitted on the physical plant of
                MRnet.  Member Institutions are responsible for
                filtering all non-IP traffic before it reaches
                the MRnet physical network.
 
        10.2.2  Member Institutions must coordinate their
                Internet Domain Names, Autonomous Systems, and
                Domain Name Servers with the Executive Committee.

 
        10.2.3  MRnet will strive to maintain network protocols
                consistent with the state of the art, national
                standards, and if required, any national networks
                to which access is required.
 
        10.2.4  The Executive Committee shall bring to a vote
                before all Member Institutions any changes to
                MRnet standard protocols, as recommended by the
                Executive Committee and the Technical/Operations
                Committee.  Unanimous approval is required for
                passage. 
 
10.3    Routing traffic onto the MRnet physical network: 
 
        10.3.1  Member Institutions are responsible for insuring
                the correct routing of data onto the MRnet
                network. 
 
        10.3.2  Any flagrant contamination of the MRnet network,
                such as data packets incorrectly routed or
                non-standard protocols, by a Member Institution
                may be grounds for immediate disconnection from
                the physical network.

10.4    Gateways to other networks: 
 
        10.4.1  NSFnet:  MRnet shall strive to maintain a
                connection with NSFnet.  This will include
                adherence to NSFnet connection policies on
                regional networks and maintaining adequate
                funding for a connection to NSFnet.
 
        10.4.2  BITNET:  MRnet shall seek to maintain a path to
                BITNET. 
 











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            14
September 23, 1987

        10.4.3  Other gateways:  Any gateway or direct link to a
                regional, national, or international network must
                have the following steps completed before it is
                approved: 
 
                10.4.3.1 The Technical/Operations Committee must
                         determine the shared cost/commitment of
                         such a link. 

                10.4.3.2 The Executive Committee must reach an
                         agreement with the other network
                         organization concerning the technical
                         and fiscal ramifications of the link. 
 
                10.4.3.3 Member Institutions must approve the
                         link unanimously. 

        10.4.4  Upgrades or changes to outside links must be
                approved using the steps in section 11.4.3. 
 
        10.4.5  Institutions with a link or gateway to an outside
                network may choose to share their link with
                MRnet.  Except for "payment-in-kind", the Member
                may not expect payment for MRnet use of their
                link.


Article XI.     Security

11.0    General:

        11.0.1  MRnet makes no claims to be a secure network, and
                is not liable in any way for breaches of security
                where a MRnet network link was the point of
                access. 
 
        11.0.2  MRnet, its officers, and its members shall not be
                held liable for any damages that may occur from
                security breaches at Member Institutions. 
 
        11.0.3  The Executive Board will take into account and
                may move to censure any Member Institution, when
                it is determined a lack of security at the
                Institution is the cause for security breaches at
                a Member Institution or a member of an affiliated
                network. 

        11.0.4  It is the responsibility of each Member
                Institution and the management of the host
                systems at that Institution to provide adequate
                data security against compromise from any source,
                including access from the MRnet network. 











Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            15
September 23, 1987


        11.0.5  MRnet security concerns are to be brought before
                the Executive Committee and shall be documented
                and distributed to the Technical Representatives
                of the Member Institutions.


Article XII.    Creation of MRnet and Charter Members

12.0    General: 
 
        12.0.1  MRnet exists with the approval of these Bylaws by
                representatives of the Institutions attending the
                September 23, 1987 organizational meeting. 

12.1    Charter Members: 
 
        12.1.1  Charter Members are defined as those institutions
                whose representatives approved these Bylaws on
                September 23, 1987. 

        12.1.2  Charter Members have all rights and
                responsibilities of members, subject to
                Institutional approval. 
 
        12.1.3  Charter Memberships expire on March 31, 1988. 
                Charter Members which comply with the
                requirements of Article III on or before March
                31, 1988 will remain Members. 
 
12.2    First Year Dues: 

        12.2.1  Annual membership dues for the fiscal year ending
                June 30, 1988 are $500.00 and will not be
                pro-rated for Charter Members or new Members. 
 
                              (End of Bylaws)


























Minnesota Regional Network Bylaws                            16
September 23, 1987

        Bylaws ratified on September 23, 1987 by representatives
        from the following Institutions: 
 
 
        Carleton College 
 
        Control Data Corporation 
 
        Cray Research 
 
        ETA Systems 
 
        Mayo Foundation 
 
        Minnesota Supercomputer Center, Inc. 
 
        St. Olaf College 
 
        University of Minnesota 
 
        3M Corporation




































