
29 October 1990

NEARnet - ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY

This statement represents a guide to the acceptable use of NEARnet for data
communications.  It is only intended to address the issue of NEARnet use.  In
those cases where data communications are carried across other regional
networks or the Internet, NEARnet users are advised that acceptable use
policies of those other networks apply and may limit use.

NEARnet member organizations are expected to inform their users of both the
NEARnet and the NSFnet acceptable use policies.

1.      NEARnet Primary Goals

1.1     NEARnet, the New England Academic and Research Network, has been
	established to enhance educational and research activities in New
	England, and to promote regional and national innovation and
	competitiveness.  NEARnet provides access to regional and national
	resources to its members, and access to regional resources from
	organizations throughout the United States and the world.

2.      NEARnet Acceptable Use Policy

2.1     All use of NEARnet must be consistent with NEARnet's primary goals.

2.2     It is not acceptable to use NEARnet for illegal purposes.

2.3     It is not acceptable to use NEARnet to transmit threatening, obscene,
	or harassing materials.

2.4     It is not acceptable to use NEARnet so as to interfere with or disrupt
	network users, services or equipment.  Disruptions include, but are not
	limited to, distribution of unsolicited advertizing, propagation of
	computer worms and viruses, and using the network to make unauthorized
	entry to any other machine accessable via the network.

2.5     It is assumed that information and resources accessible via NEARnet are
	private to the individuals and organizations which own or hold rights
	to those resources and information unless specifically stated otherwise
	by the owners or holders of rights.  It is therefore not acceptable for
	an individual to use NEARnet to access information or resources unless
	permission to do so has been granted by the owners or holders of
	rights to those resources or information.

3.      Violation of Policy

3.1     NEARnet will review alleged violations of Acceptable Use Policy on a
	case-by-case basis.  Clear violations of policy which are not promptly
        remedied by member organization may result in termination of NEARnet
	membership and network services to member.

