      <NIS.NSF.NET> [NSFNET] NETUSE.TXT
     
      Interim                                              3 July 1990
      NSFNET
      Acceptable Use Policy
     
     The purpose of NSFNET is to support research and education in and
     among academic institutions in the U.S. by providing access to unique
     resources and the opportunity for collaborative work.
     
     This statement represents a guide to the acceptable use of the NSFNET
     backbone. It is only intended to address the issue of use of the
     backbone. It is expected that the various middle level networks will
     formulate their own use policies for traffic that will not traverse
     the backbone.
     
        (1) All use must be consistent with the purposes of NSFNET.
     
        (2) The intent of the use policy is to make clear certain cases
            which are consistent with the purposes of NSFNET, not to
            exhaustively enumerate all such possible uses.
     
        (3) The NSF NSFNET Project Office may at any time make
            determinations that particular uses are or are not
            consistent with the purposes of NSFNET. Such determinations
            will be reported to the NSFNET Policy Advisory Committee
            and to the user community.
     
        (4) If a use is consistent with the purposes of NSFNET, then
            activities in direct support of that use will be considered
            consistent with the purposes of NSFNET. For example,
            administrative communications for the support infrastructure
            needed for research and instruction are acceptable.
     
        (5) Use in support of research or instruction at not-for-profit
            institutions of research or instruction in the United States
            is acceptable.
     
        (6) Use for a project which is part of or supports a research or
            instruction activity for a not-for-profit institution of
            research or instruction in the United States is acceptable,
            even if any or all parties to the use are located or
            employed elsewhere. For example, communications directly
            between industrial affiliates engaged in support of a
            project for such an institution is acceptable.
     
        (7) Use for commercial activities by for-profit institutions is
            generally not acceptable unless it can be justified under
            (4) above. These should be reviewed on a case-by-case basis
            by the NSF Project Office.
     
        (8) Use for research or instruction at for-profit institutions
            may or may not be consistent with the purposes of NSFNET,
            and will be reviewed by the NSF Project Office on a
            case-by-case basis.
 
 
