Xref: blister news.lists:184 news.groups:7461 news.announce.newusers:66
Path: blister!jtsv16!torsqnt!news-server.csri.toronto.edu!rpi!think.com!samsung!news.cs.indiana.edu!purdue!uunet.uu.net
From: asp@uunet.uu.net (Andrew Partan)
Newsgroups: news.lists,news.groups,news.announce.newusers
Subject: Regional Newsgroup Hierarchies
Summary: Describes 128 regional hierarchies
Message-ID: <15405@ector.cs.purdue.edu>
Date: 25 Jul 91 23:16:05 GMT
Expires: 23 Oct 91 23:16:04 GMT
Sender: spaf@cs.purdue.EDU
Followup-To: asp@uunet.uu.net
Lines: 2138
Approved: spaf@cs.purdue.EDU
Supersedes: <14701@ector.cs.purdue.edu>


Original-from: asp@uunet.uu.net (Andrew Partan)
[Most recent change: 15 Mar 1991 by asp@uunet.uu.net (Andrew Partan)]

Introduction
------------
There are a large number of regional hierarchies of newsgroups.
Most are very low volume.  The only high volume hierarchy that I know of
is fj.*.

Where known, I have tried to list someone who *may* know more about the
hierarchy than I do.

Note that the "uunet" service carries most of these hierarchies.
Contact uunet!uunet-request for subscription details.

Also note -- the lists in this article are totally unofficial and
possibly incomplete or inaccurate.  I try to keep the lists up-to-date,
but make no guarantee that any of the information contained corresponds
with the named groups in any significant way.  Corrections and comments
should be mailed directly to me (asp@uunet.uu.net, uunet!asp).

This list is not for internal newsgroups that should not been seen
outside of your organization or university.  If any newsgroups are
listed here that should not be, please let me know & they will be
removed from the next posting of this list.

The following newsgroups have either changed or been added since the
last posting:

ba		houston		north		scot		ucb
bln		hut		ny		sdnet		uch
ca		info		nyc		sfnet		uiuc
can		kc		nynex		slo		uk
capdist		la		oh		srcext		upenn
cos		mcnc		ont		stgt		ut
dfw		mi		pa		sub		uw
dn		mn		pdx		swnet		uxa
dnet		nbg		pgh		triangle	yale
eunet		ncsc		phl		tub		york
fj		netmbx		princeton	tue		zer
fl		nil		purdue		tut
fnet		nj		qtp		tx
fub		nlnet		rpi		uberlin

This list contains the following hierarchies:

ab		dtek		milw		ott		triangle
al		duke		mit		pa		tub
athena		edm		mn		pdx		tue
atl		essug		mtl		pgh		tut
aus		eunet		nbg		phl		tx
austin		fj		ncsc		pnw		uberlin
ba		fl		ne		princeton	uc
bln		fnet		netmbx		purdue		ucb
boulder		fub		nil		qtp		uch
bu		ga		nj		rpi		uchi
ca		gbg		nlnet		sac		udel
can		houston		nmsu		sat		uiuc
capdist		hsv		no		scot		uk
chi		hut		nordunet	scruz		upenn
chv		info		north		sdnet		ut
cle		kc		nwu		seattle		utc
co		ks		ny		sfnet		utcs
cos		kw		nyc		slo		uw
csu		la		nynex		srcext		uxa
cth		lou		nz		stgt		va
cu		ls		oau		stl		wi
dc		math		oc		sub		yale
dfw		mcnc		oh		swnet		york
dk		melb		ok		tba		zer
dn		mhk		ont		tn
dnet		mi		or		tor


Ab
--
Newsgroups in Alberta, Canada.

ab.general		Items of general interest in Alberta, Canada.
ab.jobs			Jobs in Alberta, Canada.

Al
--
Newsgroups in Alabama, USA.

<no listed newsgroups.>

Athena
------
Newsgroups at Project Athena, MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA.  For more
information, you can try contacting S. Tucker <sst@ATHENA.MIT.EDU> or
ambar@athena.mit.edu.

athena.forsale		Items for sale at MIT's Project Athena.
athena.housing		Housing at MIT's Project Athena.
athena.misc		Misc. at MIT's Project Athena.
athena.test		Testing at MIT's Project Athena.

Atl
---
Newsgroups in Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

atl.general		Items of General interest in Atlanta, GA.
atl.jobs		Jobs in Atlanta, GA.
atl.olympics		The Olympics in Atlanta, GA.
atl.resumes		Resumes in Atlanta, GA.
atl.test		Testing in Atlanta, GA.

Aus
---
Newsgroups in Australia.  For more information, you can try contacting
Robert Elz <kre@munnari.oz.au>.

aus.aarnet		[Australian]
aus.acsnet		Discussions of ACSnet (incl bug reports) [Australian]
aus.ai			AI discussions [Australian]
aus.archives		Descriptions of public access archives in Australia.
aus.auug		AUUG Inc - Australian Unix User Group [Australian]
aus.aviation		Planes, gliders, flying, etc. [Australian]
aus.bicycle		Push bikes [Australian]
aus.comms		Discussion about Academic Network Proposal [Australian]
aus.computers		Misc computer types [Australian]
aus.computers.amiga	Discussions about Commodore Amiga computers [Australian]
aus.computers.ibm-pc	Discussions about the IBM pc & clones [Australian]
aus.conserve		Conservation issues. [Australian]
aus.culture.china	China discussions. [Australian]
aus.films		Movies, Cinema, TV [Australian]
aus.flame		Abusive noise, posted by morons. [Australian]
aus.followup		Followups to aus.general & aus.wanted articles [Australian]
aus.footy		? [Australian]
aus.forsale		Announcements of items for sale. [Australian]
aus.fps			Fast Packet Switching [Australian]
aus.games		Discussions of games. [Australian]
aus.games.roleplay	Discussions of role playing games. [Australian]
aus.general		General information, announcements, etc [Australian]
aus.genstat		Genstat Stats Package [Australian]
aus.hi-fi		Hi-Fi/Stereo stuff [Australian]
aus.jobs		Jobs available & wanted [Australian]
aus.jokes		Jokes, humour, and boring trivia [Australian]
aus.jokes.d		Discussions of why that joke was no good [Australian]
aus.kermit		The KERMIT file transfer protocol [Australian]
aus.lp			Logic Programming [Australian]
aus.mac			The Apple Macintosh computer [Australian]
aus.mail		Mail systems, addressinc, &c [Australian]
aus.map			ACSnet maps (Moderated) [Australian]
aus.mbio		Molecular biology [Australian]
aus.music		Music and related issues. [Australian]
aus.netstatus		Status of local & international net links [Australian]
aus.news		The news system [Australian]
aus.parallel		Parallel processing [Australian]
aus.photo		[Australian]
aus.politics		Politics, debates, rational(?) arguments. [Australian]
aus.pyramid		Pyramid computers [Australian]
aus.radio		Amateur Radio [Australian]
aus.radio.amsat		Amateur satellite radio [Australian]
aus.religion		Discussions of, or related to, religions [Australian]
aus.scheme		Scheme [Australian]
aus.sf			Discussion of SF&F literature,media,fandom [Australian]
aus.sources		Sources [Australian]
aus.spearnet		South Pacific Educational & Research Net [Australian]
aus.sport		Sports. [Australian]
aus.stats.s		The S data analysis and graphics software [Australian]
aus.sun-works		Sun Workstations [Australian]
aus.tex			The TeX typesetting system [Australian]
aus.wanted		Requests for sources, information, ... [Australian]

Austin
------
Newsgroups in Austin, Texas, USA.  For more information, you can try
contacting Fletcher Mattox <fletcher@cs.utexas.edu>.

austin.followup		Followups for Austin, TX.
austin.forsale		Items for sale in Austin, TX.
austin.general		Items of general interest in Austin, TX.
austin.important	Important issues in Austin, TX.
austin.news		News in Austin, TX.
austin.talk		Talk in Austin, TX.

Ba
--
Newsgroups in the Bay Area of California, USA.  For more information,
you can try contacting Nick Sayer <mrapple@quack.sac.ca.us> or checking
out the ba.news.* newsgroups.

ba.announce		Announcements of general interest to all readers. (Moderated)
ba.food			Bay Area restaurants and eating places.
ba.general		Announcements of general interest to all readers.
ba.internet		Discussions about Bay Area Internet connectivity.
ba.market.computers	For Sale/Wanted: Computers and software.
ba.market.housing	For Sale/Rent/Wanted: Housing, land, roommates.
ba.market.misc		For Sale/Wanted: Miscellaneous.
ba.market.vehicles	For Sale/Wanted: Autos, cycles, trucks, etc.
ba.motss		Newsgroup for Bay Area motss'ers.
ba.mountain-folk	Living in the hills and mountains around the Bay Area.
ba.music		Musical events in the Bay Area.
ba.news			General issues of 'ba' Usenet administration.
ba.news.config		Announcments and discussion of Bay Area connectivity.
ba.news.group		Meta-discussions about newsgroups in 'ba' distribution.
ba.news.stats		Bay Area USENET statistical and information postings.
ba.politics		Political topics of interest to Bay Area readers.
ba.seminars		Announcements of Bay Area seminars.
ba.singles		Local newsgroup for single people.
ba.sports		Discussion of sports in the Bay Area.
ba.test			Tests of 'ba' distribution. (Some sites autorespond.)
ba.transportation	Discussion of Bay Area transit/commute/driving issues.
ba.weather		Weather in the Bay Area.
ba.windows.x		X windows discussion/help.

Bln
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

bln.general

Boulder
------
Newsgroups in Boulder, Colorado, USA.

boulder.general		Items of general interest to Boulder, CO.

Bu
------
Newsgroups at Boston University, Boston, MA.  For more information, you
can try contacting Leonard (Len) H. Tower Jr. <tower@bu.edu>.

<BU is not listing its news groups.>

Ca
--
Newsgroups in California, USA.

ca.driving		California freeways and backroads.
ca.earthquakes		What's shakin' in California.
ca.environment		Environmental concerns in California.
ca.environment.earthquakes
ca.general		Of general interest to readers in Calfornia only.
ca.news			USENET status and usage in California.
ca.news.group		Existing or proposed newsgroups for 'ca' distribution.
ca.politics		Political topics of interest to California readers only.
ca.test			Tests of 'ca' distribution articles.
ca.unix			Unix discussion/help.
ca.wanted		For Sale/Wanted postings throughout California.

Can
---
Newsgroups in Canada.

can.ai			Artificial intelligence in Canada.
can.canet.d		An open forum for discussion of CA*net topics. (Moderated)
can.francais		About the Francophone population (in French).
can.general		Items of general interest to Canadians.
can.jobs		Jobs in Canada.
can.politics		Canadian politics.
can.sun-stroke		Sun Microsystems Users in Canada.
can.usrgroup		Unix user group information in Canada.
can.uucp		Canadian uucp problems.
can.uucp.maps		Canadian UUCP maps are posted here. (Moderated)

Capdist
-------
Newsgroups in the Capitol District (Albany area) of New York, in New
York, USA.  [Note: This is Capitol as in head city, not capital as in
money.]

capdist.admin		Administrative topics of capdist USENET.
capdist.announce	Announcements for the capdist area.
capdist.general		General topic postings for the NY capitol district.
capdist.misc		Miscellaneous discussion topics in the capdist.
capdist.seminars	Conferences and seminars in the local area.
capdist.test		For testing the capdist distribution.

Chi
---
Newsgroups in Chicago, Illinois, USA.  For more information, you can
try contacting Ron Heiby <heiby@chg.mcd.mot.com>.

chi.ai			AI in Chicago.
chi.eats		Group for discussion of Chicagoland restaurants.
chi.general		General discussions, Chicago area, not forsale/wanted.
chi.mail		Discussion of Chicago area email issues.
chi.places		Group for announcements of Chicago area events.
chi.test		USENET testing in Chicago.
chi.wanted		Chicago area wanted and for-sale notices.
chi.weather		Chicago area weather.

Chv
---
Newsgroups in Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.

chv.general		For folks in Charlottesville, Virginia.

Cle
---
Newsgroups in Cleveland, Ohio, USA.  For more information, you can try
contacting Brandon Allbery.

cle.general		Items of general interest to Cleveland.

Co
--
Newsgroups in Colorado, USA.

co.general		Items of general interest to Colorado.
co.test			Testing in Colorado.

Cos
---
Newsgroups in Colorado Springs, Colorado, USA.

cos.general		Items of general interest in Colorado Springs, CO, USA
cos.test		Test group for Colorado Springs regional hierarchy

Csu
---
Newsgroups at Colorado State in Colorado, USA.  For more information,
you can try contacting news@ccncsu.colostate.edu.

csu.acm			For student/local chapter of the ACM.
csu.cs			General CS department announcements.
csu.cs.grads		For computer science department grad students.
csu.cs.jobs		Jobs available in the CS department.
csu.cs.labops		Announcements for CS department lab operators.
csu.cs.systems		Announcements about CS systems/networks.
csu.cs.undergrad	For computer science department undergrads.
csu.general		General topics.
csu.lance		Engineering computer network topics.
csu.lance.ace		Department of agricultural/chemical engineering topics.
csu.lance.atmos		Department of atmospheric science topics.
csu.lance.ce		Department of civil engineering topics.
csu.lance.ee		Department of electrical engineering topics.
csu.lance.es		Department of engineering science topics.
csu.lance.graphics	Graphics topics within engineering.
csu.lance.ieee		For student/local chapter on the IEEE.
csu.lance.me		Department of mechanical engineering topics.
csu.lance.news		General engineering news.
csu.lance.talk		Extended discussions.
csu.lance.text		Text processing topics within engineering.
csu.test		Local testing.

Cth
---
Newsgroups at the Chalmers University of Technology, in Gothenburg,
Sweden.  For more information, you can try contacting
d9bertil@dtek.chalmers.se.

cth.general		general
cth.test		test messages

Cu
--
Newsgroups at the University of Colorado at Boulder, in Boulder,
Colorado, USA.  For more information, you can try contacting
news@boulder.colorado.edu.

cu.acm			Local/student chapter of the ACM
cu.applmath		Applied math announcements/discussion
cu.cs.clim		??
cu.cs.commonloops	CommonLoops users discussion
cu.cs.contest		CS department programming contest announcements
cu.cs.general		General CS department announcements/discussion
cu.cs.grads		CS department announcements for grad students
cu.cs.macl		MacLisp users discussion
cu.cs.ugrads		CS department announcements for undergrads
cu.diversity		??
cu.ece.grads		Engineering/Computer Engineering grad students
cu.general		General announcements and discussion
cu.hpai			??
cu.ics			??
cu.math			Math department announcements
cu.mcdb			??
cu.motif-talk		Discussion about the Motif environment
cu.netstat		Statistics from CU campus network
cu.nih.newsltr		??
cu.ocs			Optical Computing?
cu.slug			Sun Local User's Group
cu.test			Local testing
cu.users.dec		Local DEC hardware users discussion
cu.users.tex		Local TeX hardware users discussion
cu.users.ultrix		Local Ultrix software users discussion
cu.users.xwindows	Local X-windows software users discussion

Dc
--
Newsgroups in Washington DC, USA (and the general metro area around
Washington DC in Maryland and Virgina).

dc.dining		Dining in the Washington, DC area.
dc.forsale		Items for sale in the Washington, DC area.
dc.general		Items of general interest to the Washington, DC area.
dc.smithsonian		Smithsonian related events in the Washington, DC area.
dc.test			Testing in the Washington, DC area.

Dfw
---
Newsgroups in Dallas/Fort Worth, Texas, USA.  For more information, you
can try contacting Greg Lewin <gary@mic.lonestar.org> or Mark Linimon
<linimon@nominil.lonestar.org> or Doug Davis <doug@letni.lonestar.org>.

dfw.eats		Dining in Dallas/Fort Worth.
dfw.flame		Flaming in Dallas/Fort Worth.
dfw.forsale		Items for sale in Dallas/Fort Worth.
dfw.general		Items of general interest in Dallas/Fort Worth.
dfw.news		USENET in Dallas/Fort Worth.
dfw.test		Testing in Dallas/Fort Worth.

Dk
---
Newsgroups in Denmark.

dk.foredrag		'foredrag' means lecture or presentation.
dk.general		gereral
dk.kurser.dcomp		courses in compurter communications??
dk.test			test messages

Dn
--
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

dn.supers
dn.supers.disc

Dnet
----
Newsgroups in Germany, all in German.

dnet.and.sub.general	General information for dnet and subnet
dnet.archiv
dnet.atari		Atari computers
dnet.backbone-news	(Moderated)
dnet.checkgroups
dnet.comp.pcs		PC computers
dnet.general		General information for dnet
dnet.graphik		Graphics (Moderated)
dnet.ham		Group for D.A.R.C. = "Deutscher Amateur Radio Club"
dnet.inet		Networking/Internet
dnet.mod-ki		Artificial intelligence (Moderated)
dnet.news		News/mail
dnet.test		USENET testing in dnet.
dnet.witze		Jokes
dnet.xnet.general

Dtek
---
Newsgroups at the Chalmers University of Technology, Computer
Technology, in Gothenburg, Sweden.  For more information, you can try
contacting d9bertil@dtek.chalmers.se.

dtek.buggar		about found bugs
dtek.general		general
dtek.info		information
dtek.newsoft		new software
dtek.test		test messages

Duke
----
Newsgroups at Duke University, North Carolina, USA.  For more
information, you can try contacting Gregory G. Woodbury
<ggw@cs.duke.edu>.

duke.csdept		Computer Science Department
duke.general		Duke University General
duke.hacker		programming and hardware topics
duke.systems		system admin notices
duke.vlsi		VLSI topics

Edm
---
Newsgroups in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

edm.general		Items of general interest in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
edm.usrgrp		Unix Users Group in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

Essug
-----
Newsgroups for the ESS User Group.

essug.copt		ESS User Group
essug.misc		ESS User Group
essug.telco		ESS User Group

Eunet
-----
Newsgroups in Europe.  For more information, you can try contacting
Piet Beertema <piet@cwi.nl> or Daniel Karrenberg <dfk@mcsun.eu.net>.

eunet.bugs.4bsd		Bug reports on 4.*bsd, limited (EUnet) "audience".
eunet.bugs.uucp		Bug reports on uucp, specifically EUUG uucp.
eunet.checkgroups	Only for central posting of checkgroups messages. (Moderated)
eunet.esprit		Discussion/info about Esprit projects.
eunet.esprit.eurochip	Esprit VLSI Design - Eurochip.
eunet.europen		EurOpen-related topics, announcements, etc.
eunet.jokes		Jokes only Europeans can (do?) understand... :-)
eunet.micro.acorn	Discussion about Acorn micros.
eunet.misc		Miscellaneous discussions (replaces eunet.general/followup).
eunet.newprod		Announcements of new products of European interest.
eunet.news		Group for news topics, limited to EUnet.
eunet.news.group	Discussion on and proposals for new eunet newsgroups.
eunet.politics		(European) political discussions (and flames!).
eunet.sources		EUnet-wide (only!) group for posting sources.
eunet.test		EUnet-wide test group.
eunet.works		Workstations (specifically European) topics.

Fj
--
Newsgroups in Japan.  Most of the discussion in these newsgroups is
carried on in Kanji and you need a Kanji newsreader to be able to read
them.  For more information, you can try contacting
news@icsts1.osaka-u.ac.jp.

fj.ai			Artificial intelligence discussions.
fj.announce		General announcements of interest to all. (Moderated)
fj.binaries.mac		Encoded Macintosh programs in binary.
fj.binaries.misc	Encoded programs in binary not covered elsewhere.
fj.binaries.msdos	Encoded MS-DOS programs in binary.(Moderated)
fj.binaries.msdos.d	Topics on softwares posted to fj.binary.msdos .
fj.books		Books of all genres, shapes, and sizes.
fj.comp.arch		Computer architecture.
fj.comp.comm		Discussion about software & hardware for communications.
fj.comp.image		Computer graphics, art, animation, image processing.
fj.comp.misc		General topics about computers not covered elsewhere.
fj.comp.music		Topics about computers and music.
fj.comp.oops		Object Oriented Programming, System, etc.
fj.comp.parallel	Discussion about parallel computing.
fj.comp.printers	Printers, hardware & software.
fj.comp.texhax		Discussion about TeXhax and delivery of mailing list.
fj.comp.text		Text processing issues and methods.
fj.editor.emacs		EMACS editors of different flavors.
fj.editor.misc		Talk about editors.
fj.editor.sse		Discussion about SSE (Simple Screen Editor).
fj.followup		Followups to articles in fj.general.
fj.forsale		Short, tasteful postings about items for sale.
fj.general		*Important* and timely announcements of interest to all.
fj.guide.admin		Junet guide for administrators. (Moderated)
fj.guide.general	Junet guide. Rules, Convention, etc. (Moderated)
fj.guide.newusers	Explanatory postings for new users. (Moderated)
fj.info-terms		All sorts of terminals.
fj.jokes		Joke and humor.
fj.junet		General discussion about JUNET itself.
fj.jus			Information about JUS.
fj.kanakan.misc		Discussion about kana-kanji henkan.
fj.kanakan.wnn		Discussion about Wnn kana-kanji henkan system.
fj.kanji		Discussion about Kanji.
fj.kermit		Discussion about kermit package.
fj.lan			Local area network hardware and software.
fj.lang.ada		Discussion about Ada*.
fj.lang.c		Discussion about C.
fj.lang.forth		Discussion about Forth.
fj.lang.lisp		Discussion about LISP.
fj.lang.misc		Different computer languages not specifically listed.
fj.lang.mod2		Discussion about Modula-2.
fj.lang.postscript	PostScript language and related topics.
fj.lang.prolog		Discussion about PROLOG.
fj.lang.st80		Discussion about Smalltalk 80.
fj.lectures		Informative talks given to the news readers.
fj.living		Discussions about various things in daily life.
fj.mail			Proposed new mail/network standards.
fj.mail-lists.apollo	Apollo workstation mailing list. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.common-lisp	Common lisp mailing list from ARPA. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.connectionist	Connectionist mailing list. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.info-japan	Info-japan mailing list from ARPA. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.nihongo	Nihongo mailing list from ARPA. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.occam	Occam mailing list from ARPA. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.parallel	comp.parallel mailing list. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.reduce	Reduce mailing list. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.types	Types mailing list from ARPA. (Moderated)
fj.mail-lists.x-window	X window mailing list from ARPA. (Moderated)
fj.meetings		announce for conference, workshop, etc. Not-moderated.
fj.misc			Various discussions that there are no groups to match.
fj.net-people		Announcements, requests, etc. about people on the net.
fj.news.adm		Comments directed to news administrators.
fj.news.b		Discussion about B news software.
fj.news.config		Postings of system down times and configuration change.
fj.news.group		Discussions and lists of newsgroups.
fj.news.lists		News-related statistics and lists.
fj.news.map		Various maps, including UUCP maps.
fj.news.misc		Discussions of network news on JUNET itself.
fj.news.newsite		Postings of new site announcements.
fj.news.sa		Comments directed to system administrators.
fj.os.minix		Discussion about the MINIX operating system.
fj.os.misc		Discussion about operating systems not covered elsewhere.
fj.os.msdos		Discussion about the MSDOS operating system.
fj.os.os9		Discussion about the OS9 operating system.
fj.papers		Papers of all genres.
fj.ptt			Information about PTT.
fj.questions.junet	Questions especially about JUNET.
fj.questions.misc	Questions about miscellaneous subjects.
fj.questions.unix	Questions especially about UNIX.
fj.rec.aerospace	About aviation. Airplane, airsports,,,
fj.rec.animation	Discussion about animated movies.
fj.rec.autos		Automobiles, automotive products and laws.
fj.rec.av		High fidelity audio and video components.
fj.rec.baseball		Discussion about baseball.
fj.rec.bikes		Motorcycles and Bicycles, related products and laws.
fj.rec.comics		The funnies, old and new.
fj.rec.food		Food, wine, spirits, cooking, cookbooks, and recipes.
fj.rec.games		Discussion about games and computer games.
fj.rec.games.scores	Personal best scores of games and computer games.
fj.rec.ham		topics about ham radio.
fj.rec.idol		General topics about idol.
fj.rec.marine		Marine recreation. Diving, swimming, yachting,,,
fj.rec.misc		Recreational/participant topics not covered elsewhere.
fj.rec.movies		Reviews and discussions of movies.
fj.rec.music		Discussion about music.
fj.rec.music.classical	Talk around classical music.
fj.rec.music.progressive	Talk around Progressive rock.
fj.rec.mystery		Talk about mystery.
fj.rec.photo		Topics about cameras and photographs.
fj.rec.rail		Discussion about railway & railroad.
fj.rec.sf		Discussion about science fiction.
fj.rec.sports		Topics about sports.
fj.rec.sports.football	Talk around footballs.
fj.rec.sports.keiba	About horseracing.
fj.rec.sports.prowrestling	About prowrestling.
fj.rec.sports.ski	About skiing.
fj.rec.travel		Traveling all over the world.
fj.rec.tv		Talk about Television and its shows.
fj.sci.astro		Discussion about stars, planets and comets.
fj.sci.lang		Natural languages, communication, etc.
fj.sci.math		Mathematical discussions and pursuits.
fj.sci.misc		Discussions about sciences not covered elsewhere..
fj.soc.culture		Group about (japanese?) culture.
fj.soc.law		Topics on Low and right.
fj.soc.men-women	Fairness ,Right, etc. between women and men.
fj.soc.misc		Socially-oriented topics not covered elsewhere.
fj.soc.tech		Topics on society and technology .
fj.sources		For the posting of software packages & documentation.
fj.sources.d		For any discussion of source postings.
fj.sources.mac		Software for the Apple Macintosh.
fj.std			Discussion about various standards.
fj.sys.famicom		Discussion about Nintendo's Family Computer.
fj.sys.j3100		Discussion about TOSHIBA's J3100-family computers.
fj.sys.mac		Discussion about the Apple Macintosh & Lisa.
fj.sys.misc		Discussion about computers of all other kinds.
fj.sys.news		Discussion about SONY NEWS workstation.
fj.sys.next		NeXT workstation and related topics.
fj.sys.pc98		Discussion about NEC's PC-9800 & other computers.
fj.sys.sun		Discussion about SUN workstation.
fj.sys.x68000		Discussion about Sharp's X-68000 & other computers.
fj.test			Testing all over JUNET. Very boring.
fj.unix			UNIX neophytes group.
fj.unix.wizards		Discussions, bug reports, and fixes on and for UNIX.
fj.wanted		Requests for things that are needed.
fj.windows.gmw		GMW window systems.
fj.windows.misc		miscellaneous window systems.
fj.windows.x		About X window systems.

Fl
--
Newsgroups in Florida, USA.  For more information you can try
contacting Andrew Mossberg <aem@mthvax.cs.miami.edu>.

fl.announce		Important announcements for everyone in Florida.
fl.attractions		Florida attractions and entertainment.
fl.comp			General computers in florida.
fl.comp.rep		Technical computer repair or modifications in Florida.
fl.forsale		Items for sale in Florida.
fl.general		General topics in Florida.
fl.jobs			The Florida job market.
fl.mail			Mail systems, routers, paths .. in Florida.
fl.map			Map entries for Florida sites. (Moderated)
fl.news			News problems and features in Florida.
fl.sources		Distribution of source code or documentation in Florida.
fl.test			Testing workspace in Florida.
fl.travel		Travel within Florida.
fl.uug			UNIX user groups within Florida.
fl.yumyum		Reviews and advice on restaurants in Florida.

Fnet
----
Newsgroups in France.

fnet.afuu		Discussions concerning Association Francaise d'Utilisateurs Unix
fnet.c3
fnet.combinatoire
fnet.common-lp
fnet.culture
fnet.followup		Followups in France.
fnet.general		Items of general interest in France.
fnet.greco-prog
fnet.hypercubes
fnet.ia			French AI discussions
fnet.lang
fnet.lelisp
fnet.sm90
fnet.sps9
fnet.test		USENET testing in France.

Fub
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

fub.general

Ga
--
Newsgroups in Georgia, USA.

ga.forsale		Items for sale in Georgia.
ga.general		Items of general interest in Georgia.
ga.test			Testing in Georgia.

Gbg
---
Newsgroups in Gothenburg, Sweden.  For more information, you can try
contacting d9bertil@dtek.chalmers.se.

gbg.general		general

Houston
-------
Newsgroups in Houston, Texas, USA.  For more information, you can try
contacting Stan Barber <sob@tmc.edu>.

houston.eats		Dining in Houston, TX.
houston.general		Items of general interest in Houston, TX.
houston.news		USENET in Houston, TX.
houston.personals	Personals for Houston, Texas.
houston.singles		Singles for Houston, Texas.
houston.test		Testing in Houston, Texas.
houston.wanted		Things wanted in Houston, TX.

Hsv
---
Newsgroups in Huntsville, Alabama, USA.

hsv.general		Items of general interest in Huntsville, Alabama.

Hut
---
Newsgroups at Helsinki University in Finland.

<no listed newsgroups>

Info
----
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

info.slug

Kc
--
Newsgroups in the Kansas City metro area, Missouri, USA.

kc.misc			Misc. postings in Kansas City.
kc.test			USENET testing in Kansas City.

Ks
--
Newsgroups in Kansas, USA.

ks.admin		Administration in Kansas.
ks.misc			Misc postings in Kansas.

Kw
--
Newsgroups in Kitchener/Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.

kw.bb.sale		Things for sale
kw.birthdays		Happy birthday
kw.cpsr			KW branch of Computer Professionals for Social Responsibility
kw.eats			Restaurant reviews
kw.forsale		Things for sale
kw.fun			Fun stuff
kw.general		General information in Kitchener-Waterloo
kw.housing		Rooms for rent
kw.jobs			Job postings
kw.micro		Microcomputer discussion
kw.microvax		DEC microvax users
kw.movies		Film reviews
kw.theatre		Theatre reviews, etc
kw.uucp			Local uucp problems

La
--
Newsgroups in Los Angeles, California, USA.

la.eats			Dining in Los Angeles, CA.
la.general		Items of general interest in Los Angeles, CA.
la.news			USENET in Los Angeles, CA.
la.seminars		Seminars in Los Angeles, CA.
la.slug			Los Angeles Sun Lover's User Group.
la.test			Testing in Los Angeles, CA.
la.wanted		Things wanted in Los Angeles, CA.

Lou
---
Newsgroups in Louisiana, USA.

lou.general		Items of general interest in Louisiana.
lou.sun			Suns in Louisiana.

Ls
--
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

ls.amnesty		Amnesty International?? in ??
ls.olnews		?? in ??
ls.ussr			Postings on the Soviet Union???

Math
---
Newsgroups at the Chalmers University of Technology, Math Department,
in Gothenburg, Sweden.  For more information, you can try contacting
d9bertil@dtek.chalmers.se.

math.general		general
math.news		about news (math is a central nntpserver on cth)

Mcnc
----
Newsgroups at the MicroElectronics Center of North Carolina, USA.  For
more information, you can try contacting Gregory G. Woodbury
<ggw@cs.duke.edu>.

mcnc.cad
mcnc.concert.video
mcnc.dcom
mcnc.general		general notes at MCNC.
mcnc.ncsulab
mcnc.pc
mcnc.programmers
mcnc.staff		notes to the staff at MCNC.
mcnc.systems		system admin notices at MCNC.
mcnc.talks		Seminars at MCNC.
mcnc.teleclass
mcnc.text

Melb
----
Newsgroups in Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

melb.general		Items of general interest in Melbourne.
melb.seminars		Seminar announcements in Melbourne.

Mhk
---
Newsgroups in Manhattan, Kansas, USA.

mhk.forsale		Items for sale.
mhk.talk.drivel		Trivia, flames, drivel.
mhk.talk.misc		Miscellaneous.
mhk.test		Test messages.

Mi
--
Newsgroups in Michigan, USA.  For more information, you can try
contacting Steve Simmons <scs@iti.org>, 1-313-769-4086.

mi.map			USENET maps in Michigan.
mi.misc			Catchall for Michigan.
mi.news			USENET news and mail discussions.
mi.sun			Sun Microsystems products in Michigan.
mi.wanted		Jobs and products, wanted and offered.

Milw
----
Newsgroups in Milwaukee, Wisconsion, USA.

milw.general		Items of general interest in Milwaukee.

MIT
---
Newsgroups at MIT, in Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.  For more
information, you can try contacting Nick Papadakis <nick@lcs.mit.edu>.

mit.bboard		MIT's Bulletin Board.
mit.test		For mit.all test USENET news messages. Boring.

Mn
--
Newsgroups in Minnesota, USA.

mn.archive		Archive sites in Minnesota.
mn.general		Items of general interest to Minnesota.
mn.map			Minnesota uucp map postings. (Moderated)
mn.net
mn.sources		Minnesota program sources.
mn.test			Testing in Minnesota.
mn.traffic		Minnesota USENET traffic statistics.
mn.uum			For discussion of Unix Users of MN related topics.

Mtl
---
Newsgroups in Montreal, Canada.

mtl.general		General stuff in Montreal.
mtl.test		USENET Testing in Montreal.

Nbg
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

nbg.general

Ncsc
----
Newsgroups at the North Carolina Supercomputing Center.  For more
information, you can try contacting Gregory G. Woodbury
<ggw@cs.duke.edu>.

ncsc.chemistry		??
ncsc.general		NC Supercomputing general topics.
ncsc.training		??

Ne
--
Newsgroups in the New England area of the USA.  For more information,
you can try contacting Leonard (Len) H. Tower Jr. <tower@bu.edu>.

ne.food			New England food and restaurant reviews.
ne.forsale		Short postings on items for sale in New England.
ne.general		New England general stuff.
ne.housing		Short postings on housing wanted or available in NE.
ne.jobs			New England job listings.
ne.nearnet.general	Discuss the New England Academic and Research Network.
ne.nearnet.tech		Technical operation and future of NEARnet.
ne.news			New England news (USENET) administration.
ne.org.decus		CRIMLUG discussion, the Southern NE Decus group.
ne.politics		Discussio of NE political issues.
ne.seminars		New England upcoming talks, seminars, etc.
ne.wanted		New England want-ads.

Netmbx
------
Newsgroups in some unknown place.  These might be in Germany.

netmbx.pc

Nil
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

nil.general
nil.maps

Nj
--
Newsgroups in New Jersey, USA.

nj.config
nj.events		Events in New Jersey.
nj.followup		Followups to items of general interest in New Jersey.
nj.forsale		Items for sale in New Jersey.
nj.general		Items of general interest in New Jersey.
nj.housing		Housing in New Jersey.
nj.market.autos
nj.market.computers
nj.market.housing
nj.market.misc
nj.misc
nj.politics		Politics in New Jersey.
nj.test			USENET Testing in New Jersey.
nj.wanted		New Jersey want ads.
nj.weather		Weather in New Jersey.

Nlnet
-----
Newsgroups in the Netherlands.  Conversation is usually in Dutch, but
sometimes in English.

nlnet.aio		A discussion group for/about AIO's.
nlnet.followup		Follow-ups to nlnet.general should be posted here.
nlnet.general		General discussions of dutch interest.
nlnet.misc		Miscellaneous discussions of Dutch interest.
nlnet.pico
nlnet.test		Test messages for nlnet (the Netherlands).

Nmsu
----
Newsgroups at New Mexico State University, in New Mexico, USA.

nmsu.cc.general		computer center general announcements
nmsu.cc.test		computer center test
nmsu.crl.general	computing research laboratory announcements
nmsu.crl.ksg		knowledge systems group in crl at nmsu
nmsu.crl.nlp		natural language processing group in crl at nmsu
nmsu.crl.test		crl test group
nmsu.cs.ACM		the acm student organization announcement group
nmsu.cs.general		general cs department announcements
nmsu.cs.system		cs department system announcements for uptime, etc.
nmsu.forsale		for sale at nmsu
nmsu.general		general announcements of interest at nmsu
nmsu.unix.questions	the novice's home for unix questioning

No
--
Newsgroups in Norway, mostly in Norwegian.  For more information, you
can try contacting Bjorn Larsen <bl@nac.no>.

no.c			Discussion of the C programming language.
no.general		Items of general interest in Norway.
no.kjemi		Chemistry.
no.net			Discussion of network related things.
no.nuug			Forum for the Norwegian Unix Users Group.
no.sources.list		Announcements of new, available software.
no.sources.wanted	Requests for software.
no.test			Testing the Norwegian News network.
no.unix			Discussion of the UNIX operating system.
no.x			Discussions of the X Window System from MIT.

Nordunet
--------
Newsgroups for the Nordic University Net (Universities in Sweden,
Norway, Denmark, Finland, and possible Iceland?).  For more
information, you can try contacting d9bertil@dtek.chalmers.se.

nordunet.apple-ip	??
nordunet.doc		documentation??
nordunet.ds		??
nordunet.followup	followups
nordunet.general	general
nordunet.ietf		??
nordunet.nucc		Nordic Universities Computer Clubs
nordunet.sources	sourcecode
nordunet.sources.list	list of ditto

North
-----
Newsgroups in some unknown place.  These might be in Germany.

north.market

Nwu
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.  This may be Northwestern University
in Chicago, Illinois, USA.

nwu.general		Items of general interest in ??.

Ny
--
Newsgroups in New York, USA (for all of New York state - not just the
City).

ny.config		USENET Configuration in New York.
ny.forsale		Things for sale in NY.
ny.general		Items of general interest in New York.
ny.nysernet		Discussions about NY State Educ. Research Network.
ny.nysernet.maps	NYSERNet maps.
ny.nysernet.nysertech	NYSERNet related information.
ny.politics		Politics in New York.
ny.seminars		Seminars in New York.
ny.test			USENET news testing in New York.
ny.wanted		New York want ads.

Nyc
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.  This may be New York City.

nyc.announce		Announcements in ??
nyc.general		Items of general interest in ??
nyc.test		Testing in ??

Nynex
-----
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

nynex.trd.eslab

Nz
--
Newsgroups in New Zealand.  For more information, you can try
contacting Mark Davies <mark@comp.vuw.ac.nz>.

nz.archives		Announcements of available software.
nz.arts			Discussion on the Arts.
nz.comp			Computing and computers.
nz.general		General information, announcements, etc
nz.molbio		Molecular Biology.
nz.netstatus		Status of local & international net links
nz.rec			Recreation.
nz.soc			Social issues.
nz.soc.green		Environmental issues.
nz.wanted		Requests for sources, information, ...

Oau
---
Newsgroups in Orlando, Florida, USA.

oau.news		Orlando FL news

Oc
--
Newsgroups in Orange County, California, USA.

oc.acm			Orange County, CA ACM related information.
oc.general		Items of general interest in Orange County, CA.
oc.test			Testing in Orange County, CA.

Oh
--
Newsgroups in Ohio, USA.

oh.chem
oh.general		Items of general interest in Ohio, USA.
oh.osc.software

Ok
--
Newsgroups in Oklahoma, USA.  For more information, you can try
contacting Mark Lawrence <mark@DRD.Com>.

ok.general		Items of general interest in Oklahoma, USA.

Ont
---
Newsgroups in Ontario, Canada.

ont.archives		Archives in Ontario, Canada.
ont.conditions
ont.events		Ontario, Canada happenings.
ont.followup		Followups in Ontario, Canada.
ont.general		Items of general interest in Ontario, Canada.
ont.jobs		Jobs in Ontario, Canada.
ont.micro		Microcomputer related postings in Ontario, Canada.
ont.sf-lovers		Science Fiction Lovers in Ontario, Canada.
ont.singles		Singles in Ontario, Canada.
ont.test		Testing in Ontario, Canada.
ont.uucp		UUCP related postings in Ontario, Canada.

Or
--
Newsgroups in Oregon, USA.

or.forsale		Oregon want ads.
or.general		Items of general interest in Oregon.
or.test			Testing in Oregon.

Ott
---
Newsgroups in Ottawa, Canada.

ott.general		Items of general interest in Ottawa, Canada.
ott.events		Events in Ottawa, Canada.

Pa
--
Newsgroups in Pennsylvania, USA.  For more information, you can try
contacting Mark Weber <markw@gvl.unisys.com> or <gvlv2!markw>.

pa.config		USENET configuration for Pennsylvania
pa.forsale		Items for sale in Pennsylvania.
pa.general		Items of general interest in Pennsylvania.
pa.test			USENET testing in Pennsylvania.
pa.wanted		Items wanted in Pennsylvania.

Pdx
---
Newsgroups in Portland, Oregon, USA.  For more information, you can try
contacting Jeff Beadles <jeff@onion.pdx.com> or Doug Grant
<anicon!doug>.

pdx.books		Information about various books.
pdx.computing		Computing information.
pdx.forsale		Stuff for sale.
pdx.games		Talk about games.
pdx.general		General discissions
pdx.golf		Talk regarding golf.
pdx.movies		Talk regarding movies.
pdx.music		Talk regarding music.
pdx.online		On-line information. (BBS's, Usenet access, etc.)
pdx.running		Running information.
pdx.singles		Singles information.
pdx.slug		Sun Users group.
pdx.soc			Social events in Portland, Or.
pdx.sports		Sports in Portland, Or.
pdx.telecom		Issues regarding telecommunications.
pdx.test		Tests.
pdx.utek		Discissions regarding UTek, the Tektronix implimention of Unix.

Pgh
---
Newsgroups in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

pgh.food		Food in Pittsburgh.
pgh.general		Items of general interest in Pittsburgh.
pgh.next-users		NeXT Users in Pittsburgh.
pgh.test		Testing in Pittsburgh.

Phl
---
Newsgroups in the Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA region, which includes
northern Delaware and southern New Jersey.  For more information, you can
try contacting Mark Weber <markw@gvl.unisys.com> or <gvlv2!markw>.

phl.announce		Announcements of general interest in Philadelphia
phl.config		USENET configuration for Philadelphia
phl.dance		Dance events, reviews and discussions
phl.food		Restaurant information and reviews
phl.forsale		Items for sale in Philadelphia
phl.misc		Miscellaneous postings
phl.music		Musical events, reviews and discussions
phl.outdoors		Outdoor recreation - camping, hiking, parks
phl.sports		Sporting events and discussions
phl.test		USENET testing in Philadelphia
phl.theatre		Theatre events, reviews and discussions
phl.wanted		Items wanted in Philadelphia

Pnw
---
Newsgroups in the Pacific Northwest, Oregon/Washington, USA.  For more
information, you can try contacting Jeff Beadles <jeff@onion.pdx.com>.

pnw.forsale		Things for sale.
pnw.general		General information.
pnw.news		General news issues.
pnw.sys.sun		Sun users.
pnw.test		Your vanilla test group.

Princeton
---------
Newsgroups at Princeton University, in New Jersey, USA.  For more
information, you can try contacting usenet@princeton.edu.

princeton.general	Items of general interest to Princeton.
princeton.grad		Graduates of Princeton.

Purdue
------
Newsgroups at Purdue University.  For more information, you can try
contacting news@cc.purdue.edu, news@cs.purdue.edu, and/or
news@ecn.purdue.edu.

purdue.arpa-bboard	Items forwarded from the Arpanet bboards.
purdue.cc.amiga		Amiga computer discussion
purdue.cc.consult	For the PUCC consulting staff.
purdue.cc.consult.subs	Substitutions requests, etc. for PUCC consultants.
purdue.cc.eta		Announcement about the ETA-10P at PUCC
purdue.cc.general	Items of interest for all PUCC hosts.
purdue.cc.info-205	Discussion and information about the CDC Cyber 205.
purdue.cc.log.hardware	PUCC hardware changes
purdue.cc.log.unix	Logging of Unix system and program changes at PUCC
purdue.cc.log.vm	IBM system software changes at PUCC
purdue.cc.log.vsos	Cyber 205 software changes at PUCC
purdue.cc.log.wkst	Workstation lab software and hardware log at PUCC
purdue.cc.news		Announcements of system and program changes at PUCC.
purdue.cc.newsletter	Electronic publication of the PUCC newsletter (Moderate
d)
purdue.cc.pclrc		PUCC Personal Computer Learning Resource Center.
purdue.cc.s		Discussion about the "S" statistical analysis system
purdue.cc.suggest	Responses to suggestions and comments. (Moderated)
purdue.cc.test		Testing PUCC connections.
purdue.cc.tex		Discussion and information about the TeX system
purdue.cs		Items of interest to all CS hosts.
purdue.cs.acm		Association for Computing Machinery
purdue.cs.bboard	CS department bulletin board.
purdue.cs.news		Announcements of system and program changes at CS.
purdue.cs.seminar	Announcements of seminars and colloquia at CS.
purdue.cs.test		Testing CS connections.
purdue.dov		Information on Data-Over-Voice technology
purdue.ecn.aae		Aero department announcements.
purdue.ecn.asce		American Society of Civil Engineers
purdue.ecn.general	Items of interest to all ECN hosts.
purdue.ecn.news		Logging of Unix system and program changes.
purdue.ecn.seminar	Announcements of seminars and colloquia in engineering.
purdue.ecn.test		ECN news connection testing.
purdue.forsale		Advertisements for items for sale
purdue.framemaker	Discussion of FrameMaker software
purdue.general		Items of interest for all Purdue sites.
purdue.networks		Information and discussion about networking issues.
purdue.news		Announcements of system and program changes at Purdue.
purdue.next		Discussions and information about NeXT computers.
purdue.psych		Psychology department announcements
purdue.seminar		Purdue area seminar and colliquia announcements.
purdue.test		Testing Purdue connections.
purdue.unix		Questions and answers about unix systems.
purdue.windows		General discussion of windowing systems
purdue.windows.news	Discussion of the NEWS windowing system
purdue.windows.sun	Discussion of the Sun windowing system
purdue.windows.x	Discussion of the X windowing system

Qtp
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

qtp.bulletin
qtp.general

Rpi
---
Newsgroups at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, in Troy, New York,
USA.  For more information, you can try contacting David C Lawrence
<tale@rpi.edu>.

rpi.acm			RPI Chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery
rpi.announce		RPI Announcements of general interest
rpi.arts.animation	Animation fans at Rennselaer.
rpi.beta-test.nim	Discussion and reports of NIM Version 4
rpi.courses.ai		Material related to the Introduction to AI course.
rpi.courses.compiler-design	CS compiler design course.
rpi.cs			RPI Computer Science Dept.
rpi.cs.grads		For graduates in CS.
rpi.cs.lab		Announcements about software/hardware changes.
rpi.cs.labcom		The CS lab committee.
rpi.culture.indian	For the Asian-Indian population at RPI.
rpi.ecs			RPI Engineering Computing Systems Dept.
rpi.email		Electronic Mail at Rensselaer.
rpi.forsale		Items wanted and offered around campus.
rpi.general		General RPI-wide discussions.
rpi.gnu			GNU software at RPI.
rpi.ipl			News and information about the ECSE Image Processing Lab.
rpi.its			Information Technology Services.
rpi.net-eng		The Network Engineering Task Force.
rpi.net-eng.announce	Annoucements from the NETF. (Moderated)
rpi.news		USENET News at RPI.
rpi.rdrc		Rensselaer Development Research Center.
rpi.rumor		Thoughts and Ideas about the future and present.
rpi.suns		Sun computers on campus.
rpi.talk		General social discussion.
rpi.test		For testing USENET.
rpi.text.tex		The TeX text processing language.
rpi.windows.x		X Window System on Rensselaer machines.

Sac
---
Newsgroups in Sacramento, CA, USA.  For more information, you can try
contacting Eric NiHill <eric@sactoh0.SAC.CA.US>.

sac.general		General talk group.
sac.swap		Sacramento For-Sale group.
sac.test		Test Posting Group.

Sat
---
Newsgroups in San Antonio, Texas, USA.  For more information, you can
try contacting Bruce Andreen <petro!bruce>.

sat.announce		General announcements of interest in San Antonio.
sat.general		Items of general interest in San Antonio.
sat.misc		Miscellaneous postings in San Antonio.
sat.sources		Sources in San Antonio.
sat.test		Testing in San Antonio.

Scot
----
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

scot.general

Scruz
-----
Newsgroups in Santa Cruz, California, USA.

scruz.events		Events in Santa Cruz.
scruz.general		Items of general interest in Santa Cruz, California.

Sdnet
-----
Newsgroups in San Diego, California, USA.

sdnet.cerfnet		CerfNet issues in San Diego, California.
sdnet.eats		Things to eat in San Diego, California.
sdnet.forsale		Things for sale in San Diego, California.
sdnet.general		Items of general interest in San Diego, California.
sdnet.jobs		Jobs in San Diego, California.
sdnet.talks		Talks in San Diego, California.
sdnet.test		USENET Testing in San Diego.
sdnet.wanted		Items wanted in San Diego, California.

Seattle
-------
Newsgroups in Seattle, Washington, USA.

seattle.general		Items of general interest in Seattle, Washington

Sfnet
-----
Newsgroups in Sweden.  For more information, you can try contacting
Petri Ojala <ojala@cs.hut.fi>.  sfnet.lists.* are imported mailing lists
are are not distributed outside of Sweden.

sfnet.akat.mtuki
sfnet.aloittelijoille	Uusien uutistenk{ytt{jien foorumi
sfnet.atk		ATK-alan yleisk{ytt|inen p{{ryhm{
sfnet.atk.amiga		Commodore Amiga mikrotietokoneen k{ytt{j{t
sfnet.atk.atari		Atari mikromikrotietokoneen k{ytt{j{t
sfnet.atk.cpm		CP/M-k{ytt|j{rjestelm{n k{ytt{j{t
sfnet.atk.kerhot	ATK-alan kerhojen yhteyskanava
sfnet.atk.korkeakoulujen-mikrotuki	Korkeakoulujen mikrotukikeskuksen tiedotuskanava
sfnet.atk.laitteet	Kovosta kiinnostuneiden rautaista keskustelua
sfnet.atk.mac		Apple Machintosh k{ytt{j{t
sfnet.atk.minix		Minix k{ytt|j{rjestelm{n harrastajat
sfnet.atk.ms-dos	MS-DOS mikrojen k{ytt{j{t
sfnet.atk.tex		TeX ladontaj{rjestelm{n asiantuntijoiden foorumi
sfnet.atk.unix		Unix k{ytt|j{rjestelm{n k{ytt{j{t
sfnet.atk.vm		IBM VM/SP CMS k{ytt|j{rjestelm{n k{ytt{j{t
sfnet.atk.vms		DEC VMS k{ytt|j{rjestelm{n k{ytt{j{t
sfnet.csc		TLP:n kyselykanava
sfnet.csc.tiedotukset	TLPn tiedotuskanava (Moderated)
sfnet.funet.tiedotukset	FUNETin tiedotuskanava (Moderated)
sfnet.fuug.tiedotukset	FUUGin tiedotuskanava (Moderated)
sfnet.fysiikka
sfnet.harrastus		Sekalaisia harrastuksia
sfnet.harrastus.astronomia	T{htitieteen harrastajille (Moderated)
sfnet.harrastus.autot	tiell{liikkujien keskustelukanava
sfnet.harrastus.dx-kuuntelu
sfnet.harrastus.ham	Radioamat||ritoiminnasta keskustelua
sfnet.harrastus.ham.info	Tiedotteita radioamat||reille (Moderated)
sfnet.harrastus.kulttuuri	Kulttuurinharrastajien keskustelukanava
sfnet.harrastus.kulttuuri.sf	Science Fiction harrastajat
sfnet.harrastus.partio
sfnet.harrastus.retkeily	Retkeily ja vaellus
sfnet.harrastus.ruoka+juoma	Kulinaristien kohtauspaikka
sfnet.harrastus.sf
sfnet.harrastus.veneet	Veneilynharrastajien oma kanava
sfnet.ieee		IEEE:n Suomen osaston tiedoituskanava
sfnet.juoru
sfnet.keskustelu	Sana on vapaa
sfnet.keskustelu.evoluutio	Keskustelua evoluutiosta
sfnet.keskustelu.filosofia	Filosofiasta kiinnostuneille
sfnet.keskustelu.huumori	Kevennyst{ keskusteluun
sfnet.keskustelu.politiikka	Yhteinen kanava yhteisille asioille
sfnet.keskustelu.uskonto	Uskokaa tai {lk{{
sfnet.keskustelu.uskonto.evoluutio
sfnet.keskustelu.varaventtiili	Liikojen h|yryjen purkupaikka
sfnet.keskustelu.vitsit
sfnet.keskustelu.yhteiskunta	Yhteinen kanava yhteisille asioille
sfnet.maantiede
sfnet.matkustaminen	Matkakertomuksia ja vihjeit{
sfnet.opiskelu		Yleist{ keskustelua opiskelusta
sfnet.opiskelu.sospsyk	Sosiaalipsykologian opiskelijat
sfnet.ruoka+juoma
sfnet.ryhmat
sfnet.sorsat
sfnet.sources
sfnet.tapahtumat	Yleinen valtakunnallinen tapahtumakalenteri
sfnet.test		Testiryhm{ uutisten toiminnan testaukseen yll{pit{jille
sfnet.tiede		Tieteenharjoittajien poikkitieteellinen p{{ryhm{
sfnet.tiede.arkeologia	Arkeologian tiedotus- ja keskustelukanava
sfnet.tiede.fysiikka	Fyysikkojen keskustelukanava
sfnet.tiede.hahmontunnistus	Hahmontunnistajien keskustelukanava
sfnet.tiede.kemia
sfnet.tiede.kielitiede	Kielitieteilij|iden keskustelukanava
sfnet.tiede.kirjastot	Tieteelliset kirjastot
sfnet.tiede.kulttutk	Kulttuurien tutkimus ja jatkokoulutus
sfnet.tiede.maantiede	Maantieteilij|iden keskustelufoorumi
sfnet.tiede.matematiikka	Matemaatikot keskustelemassa
sfnet.tiede.nonlinear	Foorumi ep{lineaaristen ilmi|iden tutkijoille
sfnet.tiede.tietotekniikka	Tietotekniikan tieteenharjoittajat
sfnet.tiede.tietotekniikka.tohtorix	Tietotekniikan jatkokoulutus
sfnet.tiede.tilastotiede	Tilastotieteilij|iden avoin keskustelukanava
sfnet.tiede.tilastotiede.jatkokoulutus	jatkokoulutusohjelma (Moderated)
sfnet.tiede.yt
sfnet.tiede.yt.info	YT-INFO Yhteiskuntatieteilij|iden tapahtumakalenteri
sfnet.tiede.yt.kurssit	YT-KURSS Sosiaalitieteiden jatkokoulutuskurssit
sfnet.tiede.yt.kvaltut	YT-KVALI kvalitatiivisesta tutkimuksesta
sfnet.tiede.yt.laitokset	YT-LAITO Sosiaalitieteiden jatkokoulutuslaitoksien esittely{
sfnet.tiede.yt.metodit	YT-METOD kvantitatiiviset menetelm{t
sfnet.tiede.yt.yleis	YT-YLEIS Yhteiskuntatieteilij|iden Vapaa Sana
sfnet.tietoliikenne	Tietoliikenteen keskustelu foorumi
sfnet.tietoliikenne.juoru
sfnet.tietoliikenne.katko	Tietoa tietoliikenteen katkoista
sfnet.tietoliikenne.palvelimet	Verkkojen julkiset palvelimet eli serverit
sfnet.tietoliikenne.ryhmat+listat	Uudet ryhm{t ja listat
sfnet.tietoliikenne.tekniikka	Tekninen verkkogurujen kohtauspaikka
sfnet.tietoliikenne.viestinviejat	Viestien jakelukanavien yll{pito
sfnet.tohtorix
sfnet.tori		Myynti, osto, vaihto, vuokraus ja lahjoitusilmoituksia
sfnet.uskonto.evoluutio
sfnet.yt
sfnet.yt.test

Slo
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

slo.stats

Srcext
------
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

srcext.m3

Stgt
----
Newsgroups in some unknown place.  These may be in Germany.

stgt.general

Stl
---
Newsgroups in St. Louis, Missouri, USA.

stl.general		General interest items for St. Louis sites.
stl.jobs		St. Louis job information.
stl.news		St. Louis USENET information.
stl.rec			St. Louis recreational information.
stl.test		Testing in St. Louis.

Sub
---
Newsgroups in Germany, all in German.  For more information, you can
try contacting Matthias Urlichs <urlichs@smurf.sub.org>.

sub.boerse		Infos zu & Diskussion ueber Geld & Anlagen.
sub.config		SUB-Net Konfiguration: Neue Gruppen, neue Sites, etc.
sub.config.lists	Fuer Statistiken (Moderated)
sub.config.maps		Mapdaten fuer Pathalias (Moderated)
sub.databases		Diskussion ueber Datenbanken
sub.games		Spiele
sub.gateways		News- und Mail-Gateways zu anderen Netzen.
sub.general		Allgemeine Themen, insbesondere zum SUB-Netz
sub.gnu			Diskussion ueber GNU's Not Unix-Software.
sub.jokes		Witze etc.
sub.jokes.d		Diskussion ueber Witze.
sub.kultur		Kulturelle Themen
sub.lists		Kurze und lange Listen zu allen Themen.
sub.mag.chalisti	Chalisti-Magazin (Moderated)
sub.mag.chalisti.d	Diskussion ueber Artikel in der Chalisti.
sub.mail		Adressierungs- und andere Mailprobleme.
sub.market		Angebote/Gesuche
sub.misc		Alles, was woanders nicht hinpasst
sub.newusers		Infos und periodische Postings fuer neue User. (Moderated)
sub.org.auge		Mitteilungen des AUGE e.V.
sub.org.ccc		Mitteilungen des CCC e.V.
sub.org.sub		Fuer Mitteilungen des sub-Netz e.V. (Moderated)
sub.os.minix		Minix-Betriebssystem
sub.os.misc		Diverse Betriebssysteme (z.B. MVS, RTOS)
sub.os.os9		OS-9/68000
sub.os.unix		Fragen&Antworten zu Unix-Systemen (nicht Xenix).
sub.os.vms		VAX/VMS
sub.os.xenix		Fragen&Antworten zu Xenix-Systemen.
sub.politik		Politische Diskussionen
sub.security		Diskussion sicherheitsrelevanter Thenem
sub.sex			Dreimal duerft ihr raten...
sub.sources.amiga	Programme fuer den Amiga (Moderated)
sub.sources.d		Sources-Diskussion, auch fuer Anfragen nach Software
sub.sources.misc	Programme fuer MS-DOS, TOS, VMS etc. (Moderated)
sub.sources.os9		Programme fuer OS-9/68000 (Moderated)
sub.sources.st		Programme fuer den Atari ST (Moderated)
sub.sources.unix	Programme fuer UNIX/XENIX (Moderated)
sub.studium		Diskussion Studium, Studienbedingungen usw
sub.sys.amiga		Commodore Amiga
sub.sys.apple		Apple II/Macintosh
sub.sys.ibm		IBMs und kompatible
sub.sys.misc		diverse Systeme
sub.sys.st		Atari ST
sub.test		Fuer Superschachteln und andere wichtige Tests
sub.tex			Diskussion um und Codeschnipsel fuer TeX.
sub.umwelt		Infos zu und sachliche Diskussion ueber Umweltfragen.
sub.verkehr		Autos sowie umweltfreundlichere Verkehrsmittel.

Swnet
-----
Newsgroups for the SUNET (Swedish University Net, subdivision of
NORDUNET).  For more information, you can try contacting Bj|rn Eriksen
<ber@sunic.sunet.se>.

swnet.conferences	about conferences
swnet.followup		followups
swnet.general		general
swnet.info-gnu		??
swnet.jobs		help wanted :-)
swnet.lans		??
swnet.lans.novell	??
swnet.mail		mail admin
swnet.mail.map		mail map??
swnet.politik		Bitching about taxes
swnet.pryltorg		(misc for sale)
swnet.snus		probably bogus (snus is tobacco that is chewed YUCC!)
swnet.sources		source code
swnet.sources.list	list of ditto
swnet.sunet-info	info about SUNET
swnet.sys.amiga		for those who have an amiga
swnet.sys.dec		or dec
swnet.sys.dnix		or ?? (unix clone??)
swnet.sys.hp		or hp
swnet.sys.ibm.pc	or IBM PC
swnet.sys.mac		or Mackintosh
swnet.sys.ncr		or ??
swnet.sys.pyramid	or ??
swnet.sys.sun		or Sun
swnet.test		test messages
swnet.thermo
swnet.unix		unix in general
swnet.wanted		wanted ads.

Tba
---
Newsgroups in the Tampa Bay Area of Florida, USA.

tba			General
tba.tuug		Tampa UNIX Users Group

Tn
--
Newsgroups in Tennessee, USA.

tn.flame		Flames in Tennessee.
tn.msdos		Discussion of DOS related issues in Tennessee.
tn.talk			Talk in Tennessee.
tn.test			USENET Testing in Tennessee.
tn.unix			Discussion of issues related to unix in Tennessee.

Tor
---
Newsgroups in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

tor.general		Items of general interest in Toronto, Canada.
tor.jobs		Jobs in Toronto.
tor.news		USENET in Toronto, Canada.
tor.news.stats		USENET Statistics in Toronto, Canada.
tor.test		Testing in Toronto, Canada.

Triangle
--------
Newsgroups at Research Triangle in North Carolina, USA (defacto all of
North Carolina).  For more information, you can try contacting Gregory
G. Woodbury <ggw@cs.duke.edu>.

triangle.csnet		??
triangle.forsale	NC Want ads
triangle.general	general discussion in NC
triangle.graphics	NC Chapter of Natl Computer Graphics Assn
triangle.jobs		Jobs offered and wanted in NC
triangle.libsci		Notes of interest to libraries in NC
triangle.sun		reposts of Sun-Spots digest and SLUG in NC
triangle.systems	NC system admin notices
triangle.talks		Seminars and conferences notices in NC
triangle.vlsi		??
triangle.wizards	local Cybermancers and friends in NC

Tub
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

tub.general
tub.wanted

Tue
---
Newsgroups at the Eindhoven University of Technology in the
Netherlands.  Conversation is usually in Dutch, sometimes in English.

tue.misc	Miscellaneous discussions of local (Eindhoven) interest.
tue.test	Test messages for tuenet (Eindhoven University of Technology).

Tut
---
Newsgroups at Tampere University in Finland.

<no listed newsgroups>

Tx
--
Newsgroups in Texas, USA.  For more information, you can try contacting
Fletcher Mattox <fletcher@cs.utexas.edu> or Mark Linimon
<linimon@nominil.lonestar.org>.

tx.evolution.vs.abortion
tx.flame		Texas flames.
tx.followup		Followups in Texas.
tx.general		Items of general interest in Texas.
tx.jobs			Jobs in Texas.
tx.maps			(Moderated)
tx.news			USENET in Texas.
tx.politics		Politics in Texas.
tx.test			Testing in Texas.
tx.wanted		Texas want ads.

Uberlin
-------
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

uberlin.general

Uc
--
Newsgroups at the University of California, in California, USA.

uc.general		Items of general interest at the University of California.
uc.motss		Issues pertaining to homosexuality at Univ of California.
uc.news			University of California news.
uc.test			Testing for University of California.

Ucb
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.  This seem to be at the University of
California at Berkeley.

ucb.housing		Housing at UCB.
ucb.wanted		Items wanted at UCB.

Uch
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

uch.general

Uchi
----
Newsgroups at the University of Chicago, in Chicago, USA.  For more
information, you can try contacting Ellen Keyne Seebacher
<news@midway.uchicago.edu>.

uchi.ai			Artificial intelligence at the University of Chicago.
uchi.cogsci		Cognitive science at the University of Chicago.
uchi.cs-news..		Computer science newsgroups at the University of Chicago.
uchi.emacs		Emacs discussions at the University of Chicago.
uchi.general		Items of general interest at the University of Chicago.
uchi.jobs		Jobs newsgroups (discussion, ads, resumes) at the University of Chicago.
uchi.mac		Macintosh discussions at the University of Chicago.
uchi.sun		SUN computers of all types at the University of Chicago.
uchi.supercomputing	Supercomputing discussions at the University of Chicago.
uchi.talks		Visiting lecturers at the University of Chicago.
uchi.test		Test postings at the University of Chicago.
uchi.tex		TeX discussions at the University of Chicago.

Udel
____
Newsgroups at the University of Delaware, in Delaware, USA.

udel.mlists		Mailing lists from udel.

Uiuc
----
Newsgroups in some unknown place.  These seem to be at the University of
Illinois at Urbana.

uiuc.classifieds	Ads at ??
uiuc.cs.general		CS Dept general interest items??
uiuc.general		Items of general interest in ??
uiuc.gourmand		Cooking at ??
uiuc.test		Testing in ??

Uk
--
Newsgroups in the United Kingdom.  For more information, you can try
contacting uknet@ukc.ac.uk.

uk.announce		Announcements of UK wide interest.
uk.events		Forthcoming events (conferences etc).
uk.ikbs			Discussion of Intelligent Knowledge Based Systems.
uk.jips			Discussion about JANET IP service matters. (Moderated)
uk.jobs			Situations vacant and wanted.
uk.lisp			Discussion of LISP; especially the draft standard.
uk.misc			General interest to everyone on UKnet.
uk.net.maps		UKnet maps.
uk.net.news		UKnet news.
uk.politics		UK political discussion.
uk.sources		UK wide group for sources/reposts/requests.
uk.test			UK wide tests.
uk.wic			Discussion of Women in Computing.

Upenn
-----
Newsgroups at the University of Penn.  For more information you can try
contacting Rich Kulawiec <rsk@hazel.circ.upenn.edu>.

upenn.announce		Announcements of network related events.
upenn.cis.colloq	Colloquia announcements for CIS.
upenn.cis.general	General information and announcements for CIS.
upenn.cis.grad		General information and announcements for grad students in CIS.
upenn.cis.graphics	Discussions on computer graphics.
upenn.cis.grasp		GRASP lab announcements and discussions.
upenn.cis.grasp.robot	GRASP robot users discussion.
upenn.cis.sml		Discussion mailing list on standard ML.
upenn.cis.wpe		Written preliminary (PhD) exam discussion.
upenn.cogsci		Cognitive science announcements and discussion.
upenn.ee		General information and announcements for EE.
upenn.ee.cad		VLSI development tools.
upenn.ee.vlsi		Discussion on VLSI research and instruction for EE.
upenn.forsale		Items for sale.
upenn.general		General announcements and discussions.
upenn.itg		Penn's Interactive Technology Group.
upenn.ling.general	General information and announcements (linguistics).
upenn.macintosh		Discussions on the Macintosh computer system.
upenn.maxvideo		Discussions on the Maxvideo image processing system.
upenn.neural-nets	Announcements and discussions on neural networks.
upenn.newgroups		Local group creation messages.
upenn.next		Discussions on the NeXT computer system.
upenn.psych.general	General information and announcements (psychology).
upenn.seas.eniac	Announcements concerning the operation of eniac.seas.upenn.edu for SEAS.
upenn.seas.general	General information and announcements for SEAS.
upenn.seas.gseg		Graduate Student Engineering Group information and announcements for SEAS.
upenn.systems.grad	General information and announcements for graduate students in Systems.
upenn.test		Software testing.
upenn.testm		Software testing.

Ut
----
Newsgroups at the University of Texas, in Texas, USA.  For more
information, you can try contacting Fletcher Mattox
<fletcher@cs.utexas.edu>.  (Note: there is a namespace collision with
ut.* at the University of Toronto in Toronto, Ontario, Canada).

ut.ai			Artificial intelligence at UTexas.
ut.bizarre		Bizarre happenings at UTexas.
ut.flame		Flames at UTexas.
ut.followup		Followups to ut.general.
ut.general		Items of general interest at UTexas.
ut.jobs			Job offerings and jobs wanted at UTexas.
ut.stardate		Stardates from MacDonald Observatory.
ut.test			Test postings at UTexas.
ut.text			Text processing at UTexas.

Ut
--
Newsgroups at University of Toronto, in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
(Note: there is a namespace collision with ut.* at the University of
Texas, in Texas, USA).

ut.16k			Discussions on the National Semi 16000 series CPU.
ut.chinese		University of Toronto Chinese community.
ut.dcs.ai		Artificial Intelligence at the University of Toronto.
ut.dcs.cscw		Computer Supported Cooperative Work.
ut.dcs.dbois		Data Base / Office Information Systems.
ut.dcs.general		General messages from UofT Dept. of Computer Science.
ut.dcs.gradnews		Info for Graduates.
ut.dcs.graphics		Graphics.
ut.dcs.hci		Human-Computer Interaction.
ut.dcs.na		Numerical Analysis.
ut.dcs.seminars		Seminars.
ut.dcs.systems		Systems.
ut.dcs.theory		Theory.
ut.ee			Electrical Engineering.
ut.ee.ieee		IEEE in EE.
ut.general		General messages.
ut.software.tex		Use of TeX at University of Toronto.
ut.software.x-windows	Three guesses.
ut.supercomputer	Pray for the Cray.
ut.test			Test messages.
ut.unix.sysadmin	System Administration of Unix sites at U. of Toronto.
ut.unix.user		Information for Unix users.
ut.vlsi			Big Iron.

Utc
---
Newsgroups at the Computer Centre that serves Electical Engineering and
some other departments at the Chalmers University of Technology, in
Gothenburg, Sweden.  For more information, you can try contacting
d9bertil@dtek.chalmers.se.

utc.info		what's up on utc.

Utcs
----
Newsgroups at the University of Texas, Computer Science Department, in
Texas, USA.  For more information, you can try contacting Fletcher
Mattox <fletcher@cs.utexas.edu>.

utcs.general		Items of general interest to UTexas CS Dept.
utcs.grad		Graduate student forum at UTexas CS Dept.
utcs.graphics		Computer graphics at UTexas CS Dept.
utcs.jobs		Job announcements at UTexas CS Dept.
utcs.lispm		Lisp users mail list at UTexas CS Dept.
utcs.projects		Research projects at UTexas CS Dept.
utcs.talks		Announcement of seminars and talks at UTexas CS Dept.
utcs.techreports	Technical reports maintained by UTexas CS Dept.
utcs.upe		UPE honor society at UTexas CS Dept.

Uw
--
Newsgroups at the University of Waterloo, in Waterloo, Ontario,
Canada.  (Note: there are namespace collisions with uw.* at the
University of Warwick in the UK, and with uw.* the University of
Washington in Washington, USA.)

uw.ai.learning		AI stuff
uw.asplos		???
uw.assignments		for assignment coordination
uw.ccng.general		Computer Communications Network Group
uw.ccng.system		Computer Communications Network Group
uw.cgl			Computer Graphics Lab
uw.cgl.software		Computer Graphics Lab
uw.cgl.system		Computer Graphics Lab
uw.cray			nobody uses Crays here, do they?
uw.cs.dept		Computer Science
uw.cs.eee		Computer Science / Electrical Engineering
uw.cs.faculty		Computer Science
uw.cs.general		Computer Science
uw.cs.grad		Computer Science
uw.cs.grad.topics	Computer Science
uw.cs.ugrad		Computer Science
uw.csc			Computer Science Club
uw.dcs.courses		Computing Services
uw.dcs.news		Computing Services
uw.dcs.suggestions	Computing Services
uw.dcs.watshine		???
uw.dsgroup		Data Structures
uw.dsgroup.misc		Data Structures
uw.ee.grad		Electrical Engineering
uw.fass			FASS
uw.forsale		Items forsale.
uw.general		whatever
uw.gnu			For GNU at WATERLU
uw.harmony		Harmony OS
uw.icr			Institute for Computer Research
uw.icr.forum		Institute for Computer Research
uw.icr.hardware		Institute for Computer Research
uw.image-proc		Image Processing
uw.imprint		Imprint, UW student newspaper
uw.jsaw			For Japanese Student Association of Waterloo
uw.kin			Kinesiology
uw.lang			languages
uw.laurel		LauRel OS
uw.library		Library
uw.logic		logic programming
uw.lpaig		Logic programming & Artificial Intelligence Group
uw.lpaig.changes	Logic programming & Artificial Intelligence Group
uw.lpaig.system		Logic programming & Artificial Intelligence Group
uw.mail-list.csnet-forum	mailing list
uw.mail-list.fractals	mailing list
uw.mail-list.sun-managers	mailing list
uw.maple		Maple symbolic math software
uw.math.faculty		Math Faculty
uw.math.grad		Math Faculty
uw.mech.system		Mechanical Engineering
uw.mfcf.bugs		Math Faculty Computing Facility
uw.mfcf.gripe		Math Faculty Computing Facility
uw.mfcf.hardware	Math Faculty Computing Facility
uw.mfcf.people		Math Faculty Computing Facility
uw.mfcf.software	Math Faculty Computing Facility
uw.mfcf.suggestions	Math Faculty Computing Facility
uw.mfcf.system		Math Faculty Computing Facility
uw.mfcf.todo		Math Faculty Computing Facility
uw.minos		MINOS project
uw.msg			Multiprocessor Systems Group
uw.network		???
uw.os.research		OS research
uw.pami			Pattern Analysis & Machine Intelligence
uw.pami.bsd		Pattern Analysis & Machine Intelligence
uw.pami.gripe		Pattern Analysis & Machine Intelligence
uw.pami.system		Pattern Analysis & Machine Intelligence
uw.scicom		Scientific Computing
uw.sd.grad		Systems Design
uw.shoshin		Shoshin project
uw.shoshin.changes	Shoshin project
uw.shoshin.system	Shoshin project
uw.stats		Statistics department
uw.sun-owners		for people who have Suns
uw.sylvan		Sylvan project
uw.sylvan.os		Sylvan project
uw.sys.amiga		for people with Amigas
uw.sys.apollo		for people with Apollos
uw.sys.atari		for people with Ataris
uw.sytek		Sytek communication system
uw.talks		upcoming seminars
uw.test			testing
uw.tex			TEX text formatting
uw.ucc.fortrade		University Computing Committee
uw.unix			arguments about Unix
uw.usystem		u-kernel and u-system
uw.vlsi			VLSI group
uw.vlsi.software	VLSI group
uw.vlsi.system		VLSI group
uw.vms			people who have to use VMS
uw.watserv1		watserv1 users
uw.watshine		watshine users
uw.x-hints		how to use X windows
uw.x-windows		how to use X windows


Uxa
---
Newsgroups in some unknown place.

uxa.general
uxa.test

Va
--
Newsgroups in Virginia, USA.

va.general		For folks in Virginia.
va.test			Testing in Virginia.

Wi
--
Newsgroups in Wisconsin, USA.

wi.forsale		Items for sale in Wisconsin.
wi.general		Items of general interest in Wisconsin.

Yale
----
Newsgroups at Yale University in New Haven, CT, USA.  For more
information you can try contacting Morrow Long <long@cs.yale.edu>.

yale.ace-users
yale.ailocal
yale.alfl-bugs
yale.apollo
yale.celerity-users
yale.chinese
yale.cm-users
yale.cs-graduates
yale.cs-undergrads
yale.cs130
yale.cs170
yale.cs201
yale.cs210
yale.cs222
yale.cs223
yale.cs240
yale.cs260
yale.cs270
yale.cs322
yale.cs323
yale.cs366
yale.cs421
yale.cs426
yale.cs428
yale.cs429
yale.cs440
yale.cs470
yale.cs472
yale.cs524
yale.cs543
yale.cs560
yale.cs570
yale.cube-users
yale.department
yale.emacs-bugs
yale.emacs-users
yale.encore-users
yale.eng.general
yale.facility
yale.forum
yale.games
yale.general
yale.hp-users
yale.indexing
yale.mac-users
yale.majors
yale.multiflow-users
yale.na
yale.ncube-users
yale.pc-users
yale.rt-users
yale.sequent-users
yale.sun-users
yale.systems-people
yale.test
yale.tex-users
yale.theory
yale.unix
yale.wizards
yale.zoo-users

York
----
Newsgroups at the York University in Toronto, Ontario, Canada.  For
more information, you can try contacting davecb@nexus.york.edu.

york.announce		Announcements at York University
york.general		Postings of general interest at York University
york.ml.big-lan		Big-lan mailing list.
york.ml.bind		Bind mailing list.
york.ml.canet-status-reports	Canet-status-reports mailing list.
york.ml.cmutcp		CMUtcp mailing list.
york.ml.future		Future mailing list.
york.ml.info-pmdf	Info-pmdf mailing list.
york.ml.namedroppers	Namedroppers mailing list.
york.ml.nn		NN mailing list.
york.ml.onet-status-reports	Onet-status-reports mailing list.
york.ml.openbook	Openbook mailing list.
york.ml.pcm-dev		PCM-dev mailing list.
york.ml.sun-managers	Sun-managers mailing list.
york.ml.texhax		Texhax mailing list.

Zer
---
Newsgroups in Germany.  Contact terra@sol.north.de for more
information.  Its distribtution mostly is based on some BBS-SW, but
frequently gatewayed into UUCP-News-SW.

zer.fundgrube.biete
zer.fundgrube.suche
zer.hannover
zer.hannover.allgemeines
zer.hannover.fundgrube
zer.hannover.veranstaltungen
zer.linksys.adressen
zer.linksys.aktuelles
zer.linksys.frauen
zer.linksys.frieden
zer.linksys.internationales.nahost
zer.linksys.osten.ddr
zer.linksys.osten.nordkorea
zer.linksys.osten.rumaenien
zer.linksys.umwelt.allgemein
zer.linksys.umwelt.atom
zer.linksys.umwelt.muell
zer.news
zer.rechtswesen.allgemein
zer.rechtswesen.arbeitsrecht
zer.rechtswesen.verkehrsrecht
zer.t-netz.gateway
zer.t-netz.im_kino
zer.test
zer.z-netz.amateurfunk
zer.z-netz.amiga.allgemein
zer.z-netz.amiga.programmieren
zer.z-netz.amiga.spiele
zer.z-netz.amiga.viren
zer.z-netz.artikel
zer.z-netz.atari.allgemein
zer.z-netz.atari.binaer
zer.z-netz.atari.programmieren
zer.z-netz.atari.spiele
zer.z-netz.atari.viren
zer.z-netz.c
zer.z-netz.datenschutz
zer.z-netz.dbase
zer.z-netz.diskussion
zer.z-netz.fragen+antworten
zer.z-netz.ibm.allgemein
zer.z-netz.ibm.binaer
zer.z-netz.ibm.programmieren
zer.z-netz.ibm.spiele
zer.z-netz.ibm.viren
zer.z-netz.kontakte
zer.z-netz.mac
zer.z-netz.medizin.allgemein
zer.z-netz.modula
zer.z-netz.news
zer.z-netz.points
zer.z-netz.politik
zer.z-netz.recht.allgemeines
zer.z-netz.religion
zer.z-netz.spionage
zer.z-netz.systeminfo
zer.z-netz.telecom.allgemein
zer.z-netz.telecom.btx
zer.z-netz.telecom.datex
zer.z-netz.telecom.fragen
zer.z-netz.telecom.fragen+antworten
zer.z-netz.telecom.modem
zer.z-netz.telecom.telefon
zer.z-netz.umweltschutz
zer.z-netz.uni.mailboxen
zer.z-netz.unix
zer.z-netz.verbrauchertips
zer.z-netz.verkehr
zer.z-netz.vorschlaege
