Date: 2 Jul 90
From: Bill Bostwick <BOSTWICK@DARPA.MIL>


           FRICC POLICY ON INTERCONNECTIVITY AND RESOURCE SHARING


Within the participating government agencies of the Federal Research 

Internet Coordinating Committee (FRICC), there exist today varying policies 

on the acceptable use of each agency's networking resources.  This policy 

statement set forth by the FRICC will establish both a short-term and 

longer-term policy agreed to by the FRICC participating members.  Mid-level 

networks that use FRICC shared resources must conform to this policy.



For the short term, the FRICC policy is relatively simple and is primarily 

motivated by the cost savings to the Federal government.  This policy will 

be in effect from mid fiscal year 1989 through fiscal year 1991.



     1.   The member agencies of the FRICC agree to share the use of network 

          data links, both domestic and foreign, whenever possible.  This 

          will include the gatewaying of major backbone resources of the 

          participating agencies within the continental United States.



     2.   The member agencies of the FRICC agree to carry all traffic that 

          meets the acceptable use policy of the originating member agency.  

          In the least restrictive case, this includes all bona fide 

          researchers and scholars, public and private, from the United 

          States and foreign countries unless denied access by national 

          policy.



     3.   The member agencies of the FRICC will maintain the prerogative to 

          limit or shut off the shared use of interconnected resources 

          during periods when guaranteed bandwidth might be required by the 

          proprietary agency.



     4.   The FRICC will comply with OMB Circular A-130 through estimates of 

          shared traffic and ongoing research and development enabling the 

          identification and metering of traffic through gateways or other 

          means.


For the long term, the FRICC policy is a transition to a National Research 

Network to be operated commercially.  The FRICC will support the research 

and development required for the administrative policy controls and counting 

mechanisms that will make this transition possible. 

