
"------ Mulder, on loan from the Federal Bureau of Investigation in Washington
D.C.  This is my partner, Dana Scully".  "Thank you for coming - we have a
situation here ---- how can I put this ---- that requires special -
investigation.  I requested that my government find the foremost experts in --
the field -- and bring them here."  Mulder knew he was facing another
non-believer.  He had heard the stammering before - and knew that she was
ashamed to admit she needed help from a UFO investigator.  Mulder knew just
how to rescue her:  "My department at the FBI involves the investigation of
the unusual.  You can speak freely without fear of being ridiculed.
Everything said in this room goes no furthur than this room."  The kids all
snickered. "Thank you, Mr. Mulder - I appreciate your frankness.  Now I will
be frank.  Some weeks ago, one of our researchers began receiving unusual
signals.  They were jamming our instruments that map the ocean floor.  This
ocean floor survey is vital to our government, and is behind schedule.  I
don't care what the source of jamming is.  Experts in our government think it
might be - extraterrestrial.  Whatever it is, I want the two of you to shut it
down!"

The kids gathered in the computer room were gasping - these Americans, were
their worst nightmare: FBI agents, and worse than that, official UFO
investigators!  They knew beyond a doubt that if Mulder and Scully stayed long
enough, they would discover Neri's secret, and she would be hauled off to some
laboratory to be poked, prodded, reasearched, and probably dissected some day.
They vowed to stop Mulder and Scully any way they could!  The continued to
listen in ---- as the commander turned to more routine matters, such as where
their quarters were, when and how to get meals, showers, etc.  The kids
listened to every word, finding ways to make their stay VERY unpleasant.

            The hallways of ORCA, on the way to the guest quarters

As Mulder walked in the hallway, he noticed the teenage children of the
scientists were looking at him and Scully strangely.  A hushed whisper here -
a quick glance away there.  Perhaps it was their strangeness - new to ORCA -
maybe it was a generation gap, maybe they just didn't like Americans. His eyes
suddenly made contact with a very beautiful teenage girl - whose expression
and eyes were markedly different.  Mulder wasn't really into liking teenage
girls, but this one was almost immediately likeable, by the contrast with the
hostility of the others.  But there was something much more - her eyes
penetrated him right to the core, like she was able to see right into his mind
and his heart.  He sensed intelligence, and something else, almost other
worldly.

                The guest quarters ----------

Mulder had received a password that gave him access to HELEN, but it was
Scully who was good with computers, not him.  But he was beginning to doubt
her skill now!  "I am sorry, agent Scully - your do not have a room
reservation.  I was only informed two American agents were to stay here.  I
was not informed they would require separate accomodations."  Mulder wondered
- do I detect this computer giving us the run-around?  "What's the matter,
Scully - don't trust me?!" he attempted to sooth her obviously growing
frustation with one of his witticisms.  Scully was not in the mood "Knock it
off, Mulder!"  Mulder looked at the bed - a cubby hole in the wall, and
contemplated a bad night's sleep on the floor.  A few minutes later - as he
was trying to adjust the room temperature, which was getting hotter and hotter
- he heard Scully scream "Mulder - HELP!"

She had gone into the bathroom - which reminded him of a small phone booth. He
thought that the flush was a little loud, but nothing prepared him for the
sight inside - Scully had quickly grabbed a towel and wrapped it around
herself - the toilet seemed to not only be backed up - but in turbo - eject
sewage mode!  Well, this was a sight he would not forget - the normally
well-groomed, well-dressed, absolutely professional Scully covered in _______!
He couldn't resist saying it: "Oh SHIT!"  Scully rolled her eyes and could
barely hold back the laughter.  Mulder could always do to that to her, make
her laugh at the WORST situations.  Her "shower" had at least temporarily
relieved the stifling heat in the room.  Mulder rushed to the panel, and
managed to access HELEN.  "I am sorry, agent Mulder.  I will correct the
problem in your bathroom.  But I cannot access the room temperature program at
this time.  It is unavailable."

Scully had gathered her composure, and re-entered the small bathroom, knowing
that with the room getting hotter and hotter, if she didn't do something about
it - she was going to smell worse and worse.

"Froggy - I think they have had enough for now - you better stop before they
call Commander Byrne"  Jason said to Froggy - who had been hard at work making
their toliet eject, and raising the temperature.  "Room temperature program
accessed, restoring normal temperature"  HELEN announced to a grateful Mulder
and Scully.  But Froggy couldn't resist making them stay together in the same
room ------

                   The next morning - the cafeteria at ORCA

The kids were well into their plans for the morning.  Vanessa said to Jason
"You won't have to worry about them going snooping diving around the island.
Not unless they want to go skinny dipping!" "What did you do?" Bret asked.
"While they were sleeping - I slipped into their room and stole their bathing
suits!"  Jason said - well, Froggy overheard that they have a direction
finder, and it already points to Neri's island!  I think we ought to borrow as
many waverunners as we can, and get to the island before they do.  Remember
the land developers?  We got rid of them, and we can get rid of these two
before they find anything."  Mick said - "OK, I will use my authorization to
get a couple of wave runners.  But I got to be careful - mom is getting
suspicious."

     ------ a couple of hours later - on a boat off the island

"Did you see how that red haired girl - Vanessa? - glared at me when the
commander insisted she loan me her bathing suit?  Mulder - those kids know
something about this island - and are trying to keep us away from here."
Mulder was pre-occupied.  Vanessa's bikini fit Scully perfectly - much better
than the tacky one piece she usually wore on such assignments.  The trouble
was - it was also extremely, well, revealing.  He couldn't help sneaking a
peak whenever she looked away for a moment.  "Darn she looks good!"  He
thought as his eyes followed the lovely curves.  He suddenly felt very guilty
as he realized the trust that she had in him, and the friendship that they had
developed - one that was not based on attraction, but on respect.  "Discipline
- Mulder" he thought as he saw her slip off the side of the boat into the
water.  "Darn - why does she have to be my best friend at a time like this?!"
He said under his breath as she went under the water and he put his own tank
on.

Scully couldn't giggle under water - that's a good way to drown in scuba gear
- as she thought about poor Mulder on the boat getting ready to get into the
water.  She was amused at his poor attempts to cover up the fact that he was
staring at her.  She was a little flattered - and a little annoyed - but
realized that a guy is gonna stare at girl in a sexy bathing suit.  Besides,
she had to admit that she had stared a little, too, but for a different
reason.  Mulder had looked so comical in his bathing suit it was all she could
to keep herself from laughing.  It wasn't that he didn't look good in the
bathing suit the commander had practically forced Jason to loan him - is was
just the surfer bathing suit - ridiculously small for a man Mulder's height.
If it had been larger and baggy he would have looked the part of the surfer,
except his hair was WRONG for the part!  Mulder joined her as they swam
towards the island.  They could not talk, but both could hear the whine of the
portable receiver as they swam closer and closer to the source.

Scully was the first to see the cave opening - or WAS it a cave?  Mulder,
though, spotted a six sided object half buried in the sand.  It quickly went
into his collection bag.  He knew from the shape and color it was no piece of
sea junk.  Just what it was, he didn't know.  Scully was terrified to go cave
diving first, she motioned Mulder into the cave ahead of her.

But it was no cave --- As soon as they got inside - everything was metal
supstructure and technology.  Some of the equipment appeared to be working -
all of it was unfamiliar.  There was an air chamber - Mulder gave no thought
to the air before rushing to take off his regulator.  The ever cautious Scully
was worried about the air - but since it hadn't killed Mulder ---

Mulder took one look at his beautiful companion, and decided to rub it in with
one of his famous Mulderism's: "I've been wanting to get you in a place like
this for a long time!"  "Very funny Mulder --- do you think its
extraterrestrial?  Beyond a doubt, Scully - look at these markings.  Have you
ever seen them before?"  "No - are they some kind of writing?"  "More than
that, Scully, they are very similar to ancient Phoenecian writing"  "I had no
idea you were a linguist, Mulder."  "I'm not, Scully.  I study ancient
civilizations that accomplish things that they had no way of doing without -
help.  Extraterrestrial help."

