	Well, Here is my first plunge into the world of 
"X-Files:Creative". This is part 1 of 2 of a Cross-Over story called "And 
If I Die...". It mixes our two Agents in with the "Nightmare On Elm 
Street" Saga. I am posting part 1, and will post part 2 early next week 
after I finish up some touches and hopefully get some feedback.

	I still do not know how to just simply "post" the story text 
files in my main Unix shell and include them with this message. I will 
try, but if you just get this message, I will be posting a reply to this 
one with the file attached (the only way I can at this point, or that I 
know how!). If anybody can please, help me out I-N  S-P-E-C-I-F-C-S, I 
will do better next time I promise! Also, can anybody throw this up to 
the ftp site? I don't even want to tackle that one! Here goes.....
***********************************************************************











			 THE X-FILES:
     

		       "And If I Die..."

			      By

			 Tony Anderson
		     (demeter@eskimo.com)

	       Based on the television series "The X-Files" and
	       film series "A Nightmare On Elm Street"


		    (c)  August 1994
	       The author is intending no infringement on
	       copyrights held by both the creators of "The X-
	       Files" and "A Nightmare On Elm Street". The
	       following is written purely for reading enjoyment
	       and not for purposes of profit or exploitation.
	       Copies may be freely distributed, but please
	       retain this title page and said notices.






















THE X-FILES: "And If I Die..."  By Tony Anderson  (Aug. 1994)    

					    
			 PART ONE OF TWO
			 ***************            

     Agent Fox Mulder shuffled through the papers on his desk,
looking for a specific file. He piled the folders up on one
corner next to the phone and continued sifting.

     A knock is heard and Agent Dana Scully enters carrying a mug
of hot coffee.

     "Lose something, Mulder," she asks sipping carefully.

     "What? In this filing system?" he replies opening the top
drawer of the desk.

     Scully moves over to a chair and sits, watching him search.

     "I'd love to help..but..I wouldn't know where to look".

     Mulder shoots her a look and continues into the next drawer.

     "You should see it when I do lose something."

     Mulder stops searching and pulls a file out of the bottom
drawer and opens it, laying it flat on the desk.

     "Scully, do you ever have bad dreams?", he asks coyly.

     "On occaision, we all do, there called 'night terors'."

     "Do you believe in The Boogey Man, Scully?"

     Mulder picks up the file, moves around and sits on the front
of his desk, facing Scully.

     "Maybe when I was a little girl."

     "We have another little girl with the very same problem you
did," he adds.

     "I don't follow," she says, wondering where her partner was
heading.

     "A girl, eight years old, named Drew Osborne, she has this
little difficulty in sleeping."

     "What is it, she doesn't get much sleep?"

     "No, she doesn't get any sleep, flat out refuses to close
her eyes. Apparently, there is this 'ugly man who scares her with
knives'." Mulder explains looking down at the file then back over
at Scully.
THE X-FILES: "And If I Die..." By Tony Anderson (August 1994)

     "Mulder, this is not an unusual occurance; did the child
speak to a family counselor or Doctor?"

     "Yes, he thought the same things you are right now."

     "And?", Scully asks.

     "And, after seeing a therapist on numerous occaisions they
finally had to give Drew an injection to force her to sleep."

     "What is it that is scaring her so bad?", Scully replies,
realizing the girl's problem far eceeded her own at that age.

     "Nobody is quite sure at this point. The therapist suggested
that she be admitted for a series of tests, to determine her
problem, whether it be physical or mental."

     "Has she completed them?"

     "Well, she would have, except two days prior to her check in
date, she was given an injection after a series of screaming fits
with her Mother. After Drew went off to sleep...her Father
mysteriously had his throat cut in an upstairs bedroom, just down
the hall from her."

     "Was it a break-in?", Scully wondered.

     "Homicide says no way. There are no signs of struggle or a
break-in anywhere in the house."

     "That is where we come in," Scully summarizes.

     "Exactly, our first move is to talk to Drew."               

			      *****


     Sylvia Osborne moves towards the front door, to answer the
knock that echoed through her now quiet home. 

     She pulls open the door and finds two strangers before her.

     "Yes, can I help you?"she asks, her face showing obvious
signs of exhaustion and fatigue.

     Mulder holds up his badge, as does Scully, for her to see.
     
     "Sylvia Osborne? We're FBI, I'm Agent Fox Mulder and this is
Agent Dana Scully. We spoke with you on the phone?" he reminds
her.
     
     "Yes, please, won't you both come in," she replies and leads
them both inside.
THE X-FILES: "And If I Die..." By Tony Anderson (August 1994)    

     Mulder and Scully put their identification away as they
follow Sylvia through the emaculatly kept home. The only sounds
heard were those of their feet on the polished oak floors below
them. 
     
     They followed her into the living room where she gestured
for them to sit. Scully sat on the sofa beside Sylvia as Mulder
sat in the armchair beside them.

     Sylvia looked at Mulder in the chair and a flush of memories
raced back into her mind. Tears welled up in her red swollen eyes
until she realized who she was with.

     "I'm sorry, it's been hard, but I am doing better," she
smiles wiping her eyes.

     "We understand Mrs. Osborne, We're very sorry," Scully says
putting her hand on Sylvia's arm.

     "Call me Sylvia, please," she answers.

     "Sylvia, we know of the unusual circumstances surrounding
you're husbands death," Mulder explains.

     "Yes, but nobody believes us; they consider me possible
suspect, as well as Drew."

     "Can we speak to Drew ourselves, Sylvia?" Scully asks her.

     "Yes, I only hope someone can get through to her...I have
tried..but..," she stops, her words falling quiet.

     "We'll try the best we can. Don't give up Sylvia, Drew needs
you now more than ever," Scully tells her.

     Sylvia gets up and composes herself to face her daughter
again.

     "I've tried to maintain calm when I'm around Drew; she's
been through so much lately. Her room is upstairs," she replies
walking towards the staircase across from the front door. 

     Scully and Mulder follow her up the stairs to the second
floor.
			      *****


     They stop in the hall as Sylvia knocks on her daughter's
door and opens it slowly to see if by some miracle, she went off
to sleep on her own. She opens the door all the way to find her
daughter sitting in a chair by the window, looking out with an

THE X-FILES: "And If I Die..." By Tony Anderson (August 1994)

 emotionless stare.

     "Drew honey, there are two people here who want to talk to
you," Sylvia says going to the window.

     Drew doesn't move or even acknowledge their arrival into her
room.

     "It's alright, come in," Sylvia says with a small forced
smile.

     Mulder and Scully enter the small light-green room,
decorated with various stuffed animals and scattered toys on
shelves lining the walls.

     Scully walks over slowly and bends down to face Drew.

     "Hi Drew, my name is Dana, I heard about you're dreams," she
said with a smile.

     Drew turns and looks up at her Mother. Her Mother smiles
back at her.

     "It's alright Drew, their here to help us," she explains to
her daughter, not sure who can help them.

     "You know Drewm I had bad dreams like you when I was you're
age."

     "You..did?" Drew asked, surprised.

     "Yes, I was terrrified of my closet, I was convinced that a
giant spider was living in a web and eating my dolls," Scully
tells her.

     Mulder, listening intently, gives a smile.

     "Giant doll-eating spiders yes, extra-terrestrials, no," he
says in a small whisper to her.

     Scully gives Mulder a "you're not helping" look.

     "What did you do, move?" asks Drew.

     "No, my Dad.."

     Scully stops mid-sentence, realizing she has hit a sore
subject.

     "Somebody showed me the closet in a new light and I
discovered that there wasn't any spider, and I had just lost or
missplaced my dolls."
THE X-FILES: "And If I Die..." By Tony Anderson

     Drew paused and thought about Scully's words.

     "The bad man is real. He says he's going to get me if I go
to sleep," Drew explains slowly and cautiously.

     "Drew, what does this man look like?" Mulder asks crouching
down next to Scully, before her.

     "He gots a red and black sweater on and his face is all
burned," she tells him in a whisper, as though the 'bad-man' will
hear her.

     "When do you see this man?" Scully asks.

     "She sees him only when she's asleep; I can't get her to
sleep, I've tried everything," Sylvia added.

     Drew begans to build panic in her eyes.

     "Momma, don't make me go to sleep again!" Drew says in a
plea.

     "Do you ever see the bad man when you are awake?" Mulder
asks.

     "No. He only comes when I dream," Drew replies.

     Scully looks at Mulder; they both share concern for the
child.

     "What about the knives, Drew?" Scully asks her.

     "He has sharp knives, and he wants to cut me," she explains.

     "Does he hold them?" Mulder asks.

     "No, he has them on a glove. It's on...this hand."

     She holds up her right hand and shakes it a little.

     "He killed my Daddy!" Drew exclaims.

     "It's alright honey, nobody will let him hurt you," Scully
says calming her a bit.

     "Can we come see you again, Drew?" Scully asks her giving a
smile.

     Drew nods her head yes, and tries to return the smile.

     Sylvia opens the bedroom door as the two agents file out
into the hall.
THE X-FILES: "And If I Die..." By Tony Anderson (August 1994)

     "I'll bring you're lunch up soon sweety," Sylvia tells her.

     Closing the door behind herself, she follows the agents
downstairs, and into the living room.

     "What do you think I should do?" Sylvia asks, hoping for any
signs of hope.

     "She is a bright girl, Sylvia, you should be very proud of
her. I think you should give her some time, and be as close to
her as you possibly can. I think the events of you're husbands
death might have created the dreams," Scully replies, ignoring an
irritated look from Mulder.

     "The doctors told me the same things. It's just when she
talks of the dreams they seem so real to her," Sylvia says.

     "Part of these dreams are her 'reality' right now. She has
created this "bad man" as an escape for her fears. I think what
she needs right now is a great deal of understanding," Scully
says hoping to soothe Sylvia's obvious anxiety.

     "I hope you're right," Sylvia replies.
			      *****
			      
     Mulder and Scully, after saying goodbye to Sylvia, head back
towards the car.

     "Why did you tell her that, Scully?" Mulder asked anger ever
present in his voice.

     Scully got in the passenger side and locked her door. She
pulled the seat belt over and buckled it in place.

     "What do you mean?" She asked him.

     Mulder buckled his belt and started the car, pulling it away
from the curb and onto the road.

     "About the the "bad man" being a figment of her fears, how
do you know that for sure?" He asked, looking from the road to
her, back and forth.

     Scully paused, realizing she had summarized and basically
given Sylvia advice, something the Bureau does not encourage or
recommend. She had made a mistake; acting sctrictly on instincts
rather than a combination of this and cold hard facts.

     "She needed to hear something Mulder," Scully pressed.

     "Sylvia, or Drew? In a nutshell Scully, you just told that
girl that her dreams are harmless figments of her frantic
THE X-FILES: "And If I Die..." By Tony Anderson (August 1994)

 imagination," he explained.

     "Are you telling me you actually believe that this "bad man"
was responsible for her Father's death?" Scully asked him.

     "I am not believing either Scully, we need to examine both
possibilites before making judgements; I'm starting to sound like
you," he replied.

     Scully silently thinks to herself and turns to him.

     "It's a good thing Mulder, balance of judgement is an
important part of The X Files," she tells him, with a smile of
truce.

     "Who is more the fool, the fool, or the fool that follows?"
he adds with a small laugh.
			      *****

     Sylvia had brought Drew's lunch up to her room and waited to
see if her daughter would eat. Drew remained quiet and distant as
Sylvia tried to get through to her daughter.

     "Honey, you've got to eat. You need to keep you're strength
up," She said hoping something might have changed after the two
FBI agents had visited.

     Drew continued to stare out the window.

     "Drew, you have to get some sleep, the Doctor suggested I
let you try again on you're own, but if you didn't to give you
the medicine," Sylvia said carefully.

     Drew turned to her Mother as tears began to well up in her
eyes.

     "Mommy, please don't make me sleep, I don't want to," she
said starting to cry.

     Sylvia got up from her daughter's bed and held a needle in
her right hand, the one the Doctor had given her.

     "I'm sorry Drew, honey, it's for you're own good," she said
rolling up Drew's shirt sleeve.

     Drew continued to cry as her Mother gave her the injection.

     "He's gonna come back Momma, the Bad Man's gonna come back,"
she told her in a panic.

	*               *               *               *


