
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     This is a little story I sliced together using actual quotes from
various episodes of The X-Files.  I've tried to make it as smooth as
possible...without any made-up quotes.   No infringement or copyright
intended.  Characters and quotes are based on the X-Files created by Chris
Carter.   Just for fun!

Enjoy.

"SAMANTHA!!!!   SAMANTHA!!!!  SAMANTHA!!!!" shouts Mulder from his bed.
  Agent Scully and another doctor are standing beside him.
Scully turns to speak to the doctor, who had removed a bullet from Mulder's
side without drugging him, knocking him out unconscence.  
"We can't turn our backs on him now...he needs us to help him!  I think he
may be suffering from some sort of psychosis."  The doctor looked at Mulder
and then back at Scully, but did not respond.   "IF HE DIES....because of
what you've done..."  added Scully, angered by the doctor's silence.

"Dana,"  interupts Mulder.
Scully turns to Mulder and lets out a sigh of relief.
"Do you think I'm spooky?"   asked Mulder after listening to her 'psychosis'
theory. 
 Scully doesn't answer and the doctor leaves the room.

"You were really out."  said Scully as she sat on the edge of his bed.

"Do you think he does it because he gets_off_on it?" adds Mulder in regards
to the doctor's actions.
Scully smiles a quick smile, and brushes away a strand of hair from in front
of his eyes.  

"No, I think he does it because you do."  replies Scully, scanning the room.
She notices the house has been cleaned up and that his best clothes were
draped over the chair as if he'd been ready to put them on, before he
fainted.  "Do you have a girl coming over?"  asked Scully, curiously.

"What's a girl?" smirked Mulder.  "I'm looking for a clue that will tell me
about the existance of extraterrestrial biological entities....I need to go."
said Mulder, changing the subject and attempted to get up off the bed.   

"I'm here to solve this case Mulder, and I want the truth." Scully pushed him
back down.  "I've never met anyone so passionate and dedicated to a belief as
you...it's so intense that sometimes it's blinding."

Mulder, suprised at her outburst, sat there and gazed into her  blue eyes.
"Then you need to trust me."  he said, and touched her hand.  "All my life, I
could only trust myself.   Now, I can only trust you."
There was a brief silence.

"Fox......." said Scully, lowering her eyes.  "I wouldn't put myself on the
line for anybody but you."
Scully looked up and saw the big grin on Mulder's face.

"If there's ice tea in that bag, could be love." said Mulder and lifted
himself off the bed to put surgical gloves on. "Excuse my rubber." he said.  

Scully looked down into the lunch bag that she'd brought for Mulder.   
"Must be fate, Mulder."  she said as she watched him change the bandages on
the side of his stomach.   He looked up and caught her stare.  "Root Beer."
she replied, in a disappointed voice.

Mulder put a tape in the radio.
"What's that?" asked Scully.
Mulder couldn't remember what he had on the tape, and hoped to God it wasn't
the Pheobe Green tape.
"I don't know."  he said.
"Did you play it?"  asked Scully
"10 to 1 you can't dance to it."  replied Mulder and pressed 'play.'   
   'I'll Make Love To You." by Boyz II Men was playing.

"I can't imagine that you could think that anything those people say is
remotely plausible."  she said in disgust.

Mulder listened to the words carefully.  'Girl relax, let's go slow, I aint
got no where to go.....I'm just gonna concentrate on you....girl are you
ready, it's gonna be a long night.'

Mulder looked Scully up and down and licked his lips.
"I think it's plausible that someone might think you're hot."
Scully shut the tape off.  "Can we talk about the case?" she asked.

"Don't deal with Luther Boggs..he's out to get back at me...and you're the
next best thing."  said Mulder as he grabbed her arm.

"I thought that you'd be pleased, that I'd opened myself to extreme
possibilities."  said Scully as she tried to fight back the tears.

"Isn't it nice to be suddenly so highly regarded." he said jealously and
angered at the thought of Luther Boggs.  "I know what I saw, Scully.  And I
saw you about to do the wild thing with some stranger."

Scully looked at him silently and removed her arm from his grip.
"If I were that stoned....."  remarked Scully to Mulder's jealousy.
"Ooh, if  _you_ were that stoned, what?"  asked Mulder, grabbing her arm
again.

"Mulder, you're the only one I trust."  she said, and touched his arm
tenderly.
Mulder pulled her closer to him and kissed her passionately.  he really got
_off_ when she said things like that to him.  There was a brief moment of
silence as their lips parted.

"Scully, have you ever seen the Liberty Bell?"  whispered Mulder in her ear.
Mulder was a great agent....but sometimes his thoughts were way 'out there.'
"Yes, It's a big bell, with a big crack and you have to wait in a long line."
replied Scully.  
"I really want to go."  he said.  I'm going to go up and have a look-see."
"There's something up there, Mulder." said Scully.
"Ooh, I've been saying that for years."  he replied.

"I don't understand you Mulder, why you're always defying protocal, defying
jurisdictions."  said Scully, angered at the thought he couldn't keep his
mind off the X-Files.

"Scully, the truth is out there." he said, looking into her eyes.

"Yes, the truth is out there, Mulder....but so are lies."  replied Scully.
Mulder couldn't get his mind off of it.
"Mulder, will you do me a favor and go out...go have a beer, I'll cover for
you...just go do something...please."  said Scully, as she placed her hand on
his cheek.

"Sometimes the need to mess with people's  heads, outweighs the millstone of
humilation." said Mulder.  "I need to know, Scully."  he said quietly.

Scully closed her eyes for a moment in disbelief.

"Dana, after all you've seen, after all the evidence.....why can't you
believe?"  His voice was very low, almost whispering.  Scully opened her eyes
and looked deeply into his hazel eyes.

"I'm afraid......."  she said.  "I'm afraid to believe."

Mulder pulled her body close and held her tightly against him, trying to
soothe her fear.


The End.

Hope you liked this......Comments or questions are appreciated.   

TIZ37@aol.com      

ps.   Because of the actual quotes, the story line may be a little
bit "out there" as well, but, I meant to do that......


Based on the characters and situations created by Cris Carter, Ten
Thirteen Productions and Fox Broadcasting. Used without permission and
no infringement is intended.
