************************************************************

Here it is! The actual script of the season finale. And boy, is it
a cliffhanger!!

This script was taken from an FBI building in Washington DC
at great personal risk. They must have intercepted it 
from somewhere. Now read on....


SPOILERS...

				Fooms
				=====

A *PARODY* by Glenn Wallace (glenn@fedfil.com) Copyright (c) 1994.

[May be distributed without charge. May not be published without author's
consent. All rights reserved. This script is neither endorsed nor
approved by the Federal Bureau of Investigation or Fox Television.
Based on characters created by Chris Carter. The truth is out there.]

v1.0 5/1/94


Prologue (teaser)
--------
EXT DAY. Chicago street

SubTitle: Chicago, Illinois

A Chicago city bus is parked at an odd angle against the curb. Ambulances
and police cruisers surround it, lights flashing. A crowd is being held
back at a safe distance by a police line.

Rescue workers move in and around the bus in HazMat suits. One of them
leaves the bus and moves towards one of the cruisers. He removes his mask
as he approaches a burly, black police officer.


		RESCUE WORKER

	Well, Dan, the total dead now is six.

		OFFICER DAN

	(shocked) What a horrible, horrible way to die.

		RESCUE WORKER

	You think there's a good way to die? (shakes his head)
	Of course, we won't know for certain the cause of death until
	we do the autopsies.

		OFFICER DAN

	I don't need an autopsy to tell me what my eyes can see!
	Any residue or evidence of the gas?

		RESCUE WORKER

	We've collected some atmospheric samples from inside the bus.
	What do we do now?

		OFFICER DAN

	Impound the bus, remove the bodies, and put the cat out.
	I have a phone call to make.

		RESCUE WORKER

	One more thing. We found ... this...


He holds up a brown man's shoe, with a hole worn in the bottom.


		OFFICER DAN (into cellular phone)

	Get me Special Agent Fox Mulder of the FBI.


Dramatic music, ECU on the shoe as we go to...


Stock footage: title sequence
-----------------------------

Act 1
-----
INT DAY. FBI Headquarters, Mulder's Office

SubTitle: FBI Headquarters, Washington DC.

Scully is sitting at Mulder's desk. On the desk in front of her are three 
Big Macs(TM), four subs, two pizzas and some kind of ice cream dessert.

Mulder is preparing a slide projector.


		MULDER

	You know you shouldn't eat so much junk food, Scully.

		SCULLY

	Hey, I'll eat what I want, Mulder. Besides, lately I just
	can't seem to satisfy my appetite.

		MULDER

	Well I guess it could be worse, it could be liver.
	(beat) OK, I've got it.


Mulder turns the lights off. The slide projector comes on
and we see a CU of a dead body. The man has a pained expression
on his face, like at the actual moment of death he was suffering
greatly.


		MULDER

	Chicago, Illinois. Chi-town. The windy city.
	Officer Dan Tullis of the 2nd Precinct called me,
	he's an old friend. We used to go drag racing together
	when we were young foolish teenagers.

		SCULLY

	That's a side of you I never imagined, Mulder.

		MULDER

	Of course we had to give it up after we stopped wearing
	our mother's dresses.


Mulder steps to the next slide, a CU of a dead woman, clutching
her purse.


		SCULLY

	Cause of death? (eats some more food)

		MULDER

	Toxic gas inhalation. Or so it would seem.

		SCULLY

	(pauses eating)	Well, surely the city has to deal with
	that. A sewer leak, perhaps? Or maybe a toxic waste truck
	drove by and hit a bump and it leaked out. I think you're
	jumping to conclusions, Mulder. There are other more rational
	explanations.

		MULDER

	(hurt) But I didn't say anything! No, no, this time I
	know it wasn't the Grays. (beat) The autopsy didn't show
	any conclusive evidence of this gas other than a
	slight inflammation of the sinuses. In all six deaths,
	the victims seem to have died an extremely horrible
	death, with is what we deal in here at the X-Files.

		SCULLY

	You think there's a good way to die? (shakes her head)
	So where now?

		MULDER

	Gas up the Taurus, and have them get that smell out.
	I have someone to talk to. (stern look)
	I'll met you at National at 6am. Delta has a 6:50am
	flight to Chicago.

Fade to:


INT NIGHT. Mulder's Apartment

Mulder unscrews the bulb from his desk lamp. From his pocket
he produces a red bulb, which he screws in. He turns the lamp
on and points it at his window. He reaches for another switch
and a light shines on a rotating disco mirror ball, also in the
window.


EXT NIGHT. Mulder's Apartment

We see the red lamp and mirror ball clearly from the street.
You can't miss them.


INT NIGHT. Mulder's Apartment

Mulder lies on the couch, watching reruns of the Mary Tyler-Moore
Show. He falls asleep.

The phone rings, waking him. Dragnet is on TV. As he crosses the floor,
he fails to notice 6 screws, a nail, 2 wing nuts, a vent panel, a light
fitting and a floor board mysteriously lying around.

Mulder picks up the phone.


		PHONE

	Click. Click. Click - click - click.

		MULDER

	No, wait! Was that 2 then 3 or 3 then 2?

		PHONE

	(louder) CLICK. CLICK. CLICK - CLICK - CLICK.

		MULDER

	(writing) OK, I think I got it. 2 then 2,
	right? That means I should kill the President.

		PHONE

	No, you fool. 2, then 3. Meet me at Daingerfield Park!

	(dial tone)


EXT NIGHT. Daingerfield Park

As Mulder walks through the parking lot we see a lot of cars; it looks
like quite a few people are making out.

Mulder sits on a park bench, by the river. Across the river we
can see an array of monuments to dead Presidents.

>From out of the shadows, Deep Throat emerges. He is wearing the
obligatory trench coat.


		MULDER

	It's been a while.

		DEEP THROAT

	Look, sonny, I don't want to hear your problems.


He passes Mulder a plain envelope. Mulder opens it.
Inside we see photos of JFK's corpse, photos of a young
Deep Throat proudly holding a rifle, photos of the same 
young Deep Throat at Red Square in Moscow, photos
of the same young Deep Throat waving from a grassy knoll 
in Dallas.

Mulder raises his eyebrows.


		MULDER

	This isn't the case I'm working on.


Deep Throat looks at the photos, and quickly takes the envelope
back. He produces a different envelope, which Mulder opens.
We see photos of bodies much like Mulder's slides.

		
		MULDER

	These people all died the same way as the ones 
	this week? They're from Chicago too?


Deep Throat nods.


		DEEP THROAT

	This was five years ago. We had to keep it quiet,
	there was an election on and we didn't want it
	to affect the outcome.

		MULDER

	What a horrible way to die.

		DEEP THROAT

	You think there's a nice way to die? Now, as usual,
	you must give me complete anonymity. No one can know
	I am talking to you. My identity must remain a
	total secret.

		MULDER

	Yes, but Dr. Kissinger, there's just one more thing I
	need to know. Will _she_ be there?

		DEEP THROAT

	(heavy Jewish accent) Oy! These kids. (normal voice)
	I should think she's the last of your worries.
	Now I must go.


Deep Throat walks off into the shadows. As he passes a couple
on another park bench, he opens his trench coat and flashes 
them. Luckily, a Fox TV crew (WTTG channel 5) are waiting
and we see a blaze of lights as they fire up their cameras.

Mulder, heading the other direction, sees none of this.

		
Act 2
-----
EXT DAY. The Taurus, in traffic.

ECU of a bumper sticker "I brake for Alien Entities".


INT DAY. The Taurus, in a traffic jam.

SubTitle: Washington National Airport, Washington DC.


Mulder is driving, Scully is looking tired.


		SCULLY

	Gee, it was lucky you happened to be sleeping
	in your car outside my apartment.

		MULDER

	Yes, well I was in the area.

		SCULLY

	We should have taken the Metro. I can't believe
	this traffic. At 6am!

		MULDER

	Well, this is actually a left-over traffic jam
	from yesterday evening's rush hour.


INT DAY. Washington National Airport, Main Terminal.

SubTitle: Main Terminal, Washington National Airport, Washington DC.

Mulder and Scully are walking around, looking quite confused.
Scully approaches an information desk.

		SCULLY

	We're looking for the Delta counter.

		INFORMATION GIRL

	Interim terminal.

		SCULLY

	Oh thanks, I remember it was there the last time
	I was here.


She walks up to Mulder, whispers to him, and they walk away.


		INFORMATION GIRL (to herself)

	Damn FBI agents, couldn't find their asses with
	a funnel.


INT DAY. Washington National Airport, Interim Terminal.

SubTitle: Interim Terminal, Washington National Airport, Washington DC.

Scully is busy feeding her face from an array of junk food, as usual.
Mulder is looking pensive, as usual.


		MULDER

	Say Scully, did you ever see that movie where that
	guy on the spaceship kept eating and eating and then
	this thing burst out of his chest?

		SCULLY

	(through food) Can't talk. Eating.

		MULDER

	Before we board there's one small thing I need to check
	on. I'll be right back.


Mulder walks up to a shoe shine stand. He sits down. The shoe shine
man starts buffing his white sneakers with black Kiwi shoe polish.
The shoe shine man looks a lot like the shoe shine guy from
"Police Squad!".


		MULDER

	It's been a long time.

		SHOE SHINE MAN

	Listen kid, I don't care about your problems.
	Now, you come to me for information.


Mulder passes him a 20.


		MULDER

	OK, what have you got on the deaths in Chicago?


Mulder gets out his note pad and prepares to write.


		SHOE SHINE MAN

	Sure. There have been quite a few cases like this
	over the years in Chicago. Some very odd places,
	people just collapse, then lapse into a deep coma
	and die for no apparent reason.

	Now I'll tell you something else, there's a link
	between these deaths and the Green River killings
	a few years back. Do you remember the name of the
	guy that did those?

	Now, Groom Lake is actually a base for secret
	UFO testing. The government has a joint R&D
	project going with the aliens. They provide 
	us with the technology, and we provide them
	with supplies of strawberry ice cream.

	Also, JFK was murdered because of his secret 
	connections with the Russian Mafia. If you check
	with a Miss Henny F-f-f-f-farmer in Pasadena, she
	will give you the evidence you need to start
	a congressional inquiry.

	You got all that?

		MULDER

	(reading back) "...some very odd places,
	people just collapse..." What was after that?


INT DAY. Office, Cook County Morgue, Illinois

SubTitle: Cook County Morgue, Illinois

Scully, seated, is eating from a nose-bag. Mulder and Officer Dan are
looking at photos.


		OFFICER DAN

	These latest deaths occurred at the New Market Mall.

		MULDER

	Gruesome. Scully, want to start the autopsy?


Scully nods, and removes her nose bag.


		SCULLY

	Let's get the body of the most recently deceased.


Mulder opens a body drawer. It is Richard Nixon. He closes it.
Mulder opens the next drawer.


		MULDER

	OK, this is Rosemary Friendly. Age 47. Time of death,
	around 1pm today. Can we get someone to move her to the
	autopsy room?


We move to...


INT DAY. Autopsy Room, Cook County Morgue, Illinois


Scully is performing the autopsy, burger in one hand, scalpel in
the other. Officer Dan and Mulder watch, both looking quite green.


		SCULLY (into mic)

	...weight of liver 6 pounds. Boy, did Eugene miss out
	on a good un' here. No abnormal lung tissue. Minor
	lesions on esophagus. Gross inflammation of sinus tissue.
	Yep, looks like the same thing, all right.

		MULDER

	Any clues as to the actual cause?

		SCULLY
	
	Looks like the inflamed tissue blocked airways sufficiently
	to cause near instant suffocation.

		OFFICER DAN

	What a horrible way to die.

		MULDER and SCULLY (together)

	There's no nice way to die!

		OFFICER DAN

	Oh yeah, we found another shoe at the scene.
	Same cheap type as the first one, same wear pattern.


ECU on the shoe. As we .... go to a soap powder commercial.


Act 3
-----

INT DAY. Office, Cook County Morgue, Illinois

Mulder and Scully are sitting down, reviewing some medical reports.
Scully is drinking a milkshake, using three straws.


		MULDER

	You know, you should watch your weight. People
	will start to notice it.

		SCULLY

	I just can't explain this hunger.

		MULDER

	(screams) Chest burster!! haha!


Scully chokes.	


		MULDER

	Hey, just kidding.


Scully continues to choke.


		MULDER

	Look, sorry I scared you. You can stop now.


Scully goes pale.


		MULDER

	Oh-my-God!!!


Scully hurls her cookies, all over the floor. Luckily we are spared
any view of this.


INT DAY. Cook County Medical Examiner's Lab

Scully is hooked up to an ultrasound machine. Mulder has turned slightly
maniacal, operating controls, zooming in and out on the screen.
He's in paranoid mad scientist mode.


		MULDER

	Well, it looks definitely like....

		SCULLY

	What, Mulder, what?

		MULDER

	...there is something growing inside of you.

		SCULLY

	No.

		MULDER

	Yes. I'm afraid you're.... pregnant.

		SCULLY

	(incredulous) But how?!

		MULDER

	There have been many cases reported like this,
	dating back to Biblical times. More recently
	some lesbians have reported going to parties,
	getting drunk, and waking up pregnant.
	This is your basic Immaculate Conception.
	Also, UFO abductees have made similar reports
	under hypnosis

		SCULLY

	I don't believe you.

		MULDER

	You and Phil Klass. You don't believe me or you
	don't _want_ to	believe?

		SCULLY

	(still shocked) You know what this means?

		MULDER

	I'll be getting a new partner, that's for sure.
	

INT NIGHT. Hotel Room

Mulder is watching the Home Shopping Channel. We hear a knock
on the door.

Mulder opens to the door. Standing before him is a very anonymous
looking man. He is of average build, height, complexion and dress.
Actually, he's _wearing_ an average looking dress.

Mulder lets him in and closes the door.

		MAN

	Fox Mulder. At last we meet.

		MULDER

	Who are you? How did you know I was here?

		MAN

	You can call me "Deeper Throat". I've been 
	watching you for a long time.

		MULDER

	How long?

		MAN

	Remember when you were at the baseball game looking for
	that murderer? I was the guy sitting behind you.
	
	When you were chasing the computer killer? I was the guy
	crossing the street as you walked into the office building.

	When you were on the Indian reservation? I was the elder
	you spoke to.

	(quickens pace)

	When you were in the Washington forest? I was a small furry
	animal up a tree. When you were in Alaska? I was the dog.
	When you were chasing the EBE body? I was the hooker you
	tried to solicit in Atlanta.

	When ---

		MULDER

	I get the picture. You've been watching me for a long time.
	Why are you here?

		MAN

	To put you on the right track of course.

		MULDER

	And what track might that be?

		MAN

	Don't you want to find the cause of this? Who is behind it?

		MULDER

	Why are you doing this?

		MAN

	Guilt. A sense of fair play, righting wrongs. Bringing
	the _truth_ to light.

		MULDER

	I understand.

		MAN

	9764 Jeopardy Lane.


EXT NIGHT. Outside the house.

Mulder is at the front door of the house. It has an orange door
and the number beside the door reads "9764".

Mulder counts to himself...


		MULDER (under his breath)

	1..2....3!


Mulder kicks the door in, gun in hand. In the squalid living room he
sees a man sitting on a couch watching TV. His hair is thinning and he
has one hand in his pants.

He once played high school football. (4 touchdowns in one game.)

His bare feet are on the coffee table. Mulder goes down in the
doorway.... gasping.


		PEGGY BUNDY (VO from upstairs)

	Al! Have you got your shoes off again?

		MULDER (to himself)

	(fading fast) What a horrible way to <gasp> die....


Fade out.

Stock footage: end titles

- END -

-----------------+-------------------------------------------------------------
Glenn Wallace    | Don't turn your back on the world. Turning your back is what
glenn@fedfil.com | happens when you're busy looking the other way. 
fedfile@digex.net|                                     - Ron Nasty (the Rutles)

