 
 
Just a hint of romance... But nothing a 6 year-old couldn't 
read... 
 
All characters used without permission... 
 
           
 
                    IDYLLIC MOMENT. 
 
 
     She was beautiful, he could think of no other way to express 
it. She sat on the blanket her dark blue sun dress a brilliant 
offset to the deep green of the grass. Mulder watched her smile 
at him. 
 
     That smile always gave him a warm comfortable shiver up his 
spine. It wasn't often Scully smiled, really smiled, lips wide 
and bright white teeth. Once more Mulder felt that delirious 
shiver of happiness. Grinning he sat down on the blanket and 
began unpacking lunch. 
 
     The last 3 years had been rough on both of them. When the X- 
Files had been closed Mulder began to struggle. The two most 
important things in his life had been ripped away. Dana and his 
faith.  
 
     Mulder never needed a religion. From the time he was 12 he 
KNEW what be believed! Mulder had conviction and determination 
that would rival and humble the most devote religious fanatic. It 
was a simple belief wrapped in deep dark secret and mystery. It 
was every bit as intangible as God. Mulder wanted to believe! He 
needed to believe. 
 
     It was all Mulder really cared about. Deep down, hidden away 
from the light in Mulder's soul was a quest for his sister, a 
never ending quest and Mulder had dedicated his life to 
believing. 
      
     He had relationships in the past. They were thin and flimsy, 
almost like following a script. They never lasted and really 
never seemed to be worthwhile. It always hurt in the end. 
Relationships seemed to have a built in inevatabilty about them. 
Doomed to failure?  Mulder was sure until he met Scully. 
 
     She was his baby sitter. She was there to keep an eye on 
"Spooky" Mulder and Mulder resented it. He didn't need or want a 
"partner." He knew that she would be a millstone around his neck.  
     Over the course of their adventures together something built 
between he and Scully. It was deeper then friendship and more 
then trust, maybe it was respect? Mulder wasn't sure. But he 
valued what they had more then life and when it was taken away. 
What could he say, he had no proof of aliens and the only person 
in the world that meant anything to him was gone. 
 
     Life was hurting pretty bad at that point. Mulder was 
staggering. He turned off from the world outside him and got 
depressed. Then one day in his "office," the picture of samantha 
he kept on his desk was turned down. He went to meet Scully. 
 
     He was too far gone to appreciate her effort. She tried to 
bring him out into the light. Deep inside he wanted to rant at 
her!!! Explain that the hiding undercover crap was to protect 
her... Mulder no longer cared about himself. Then just as she was 
ready to leave and Mulder slumped against a post she ruffled his 
hair. Something changed, Mulder felt something happen inside him. 
He knew that he loved her. It was simple and stunning. 
 
     She came looking for him and found him in Puerto Rico when 
he had run off in search of proof. She backed him and supported 
him, she came to save him. She wasn't ordered, she wanted to help 
him. It counted, nore then she would ever know, it counted to 
Mulder. 
 
     It was very simple, he needed her! He leaned over, "I love 
you Dana Scully!," and kissed those ruby lips, his heart began 
rushing as it always did when he touched her. 
 
     "Mulder ... Mulder", Scully punched him on the arm again. 
Mulder shook his head and started. "Huh, What!"  
 
     "Are you going to put in the other movie or shall we watch 
the lovely static from blank tape?"  Scully jabbed at her 
partner, a faint smile playing at the edges of her mouth as she 
waited for Mulder to jab back. 
 
     "Sorry Scully," A full smile on his face, "here I'll put the 
other tape in; but I have to tell you. 'Sleepless in Seattle' is 
a real bad followup to 'Humanoids From the Deep." 
 
     As he busied himself with the VCR Dana stared at his back. 
"Mulder, what were you thinking about? I don't think I have ever 
seen you with that large smile on your face." 
 
     "It was just a little daydream, swee- ... Da- .. Scully" 
Mulder couldn't clear the smile from his face. So he just looked 
at the VCR for awhile longer. 
 
      
 
By Daniel Pearce.    
 
Hopeless romantic and Proud member of GATB... 
 
Comments, etc are welcome... 
remowlms@seagull.rtd.com 
