STARSHIP'S SOS STUNS SCIENTISTS

In one of  the most super secrets in history, a joint Soviet-American
scientist team is studying a mysterious radio signal from outer space - a
distress call sent from a planet or starship 50,000 yrs. ago.
"This is a stunning breakthrough. Our computers have actually translated a
major portion of the radio signal," said one U.S. astronomer who discussed the
research with a French freelance news service on the condition that he not be
identified.

Portions of the amazing message were put together in a reasonably accurate
form by the team in April, but have not been published.

"GUIDE US TO FOURTH UNIVERSE. EXPLOSION. WE ARE IN PERIL. WE ARE IN TIME
117.098 IN 12th GALAXY," was the frantic message.

"Very simply, from a mathamatical translation, we can assume this was an
ancient spacecraft, or even a planet. It was looking for some kind of beacon,
a signal, to guide them out of danger. This whole thing is mind-boggling,"
said the astronomer.

"My Soviet counterparts have done the majority of computer translation and we
have been working night and day to pinpoint the source of the signal."

"Our initial calculations have shown, and we may may be proven very wrong
later, that the signal was sent at least 50,000 years ago, and maybe longer."

"My colleagues feel and we must have more conclusive analysis of the message
before we publish a report. I disagree. Both our goverments are briefed on our
progress constantly.  I feel the whole story should be made public now!"

"It is conclusive proof, to me, that mankind is not alone.  I only wish that I
could go into further detail. There is much more to this story and more of the
signal to be translated"

"But I will say this, when this goes public, it will have one of the greatest
effects on the human race in history! It could even bring about world peace",
said the unidentified astronomer.

Both U.S. and Soviet goverment spokesmen refused to confirm or deny that
scientific research into an alien message was taking place.

The Soviet spokesman, however, said that "Our goverment is constantly seeking
new information from space, and that it includes scanning for radio signals of
any kind. It is not inconceivable that our advanced equiptment could pick up a
message of this sort. I am just not at liberty to discuss it any further at
this point."


