COOLHAND.NFO 

Message  : 74 of 99                 Posted   : 02/03/92 at 7:38 am
Subject  : bust                     To       : Everyone
From     : Cool Hand                User Note: INC Vice Pres.
컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴컴
Ok I will let everyone right now know what is happening with TNSHB TGR and I
dont want to hear no stories that have been handed down 5 times, here it
goes...
also Why should My word be taken here well it is because I talked to TNSHB &
TGR several times a day since this happened and I had both of them in coference
yesterday so I know what is going on and This may concern a lot of you so read
it!
Now yes TNSHB (The Not so Humble Babe) & TGR (The Grim Reaper) were busted last
week.. TNSHB got it for Carding, Phreaking, Forgery, and Piracy and maybe some
other charges.  TGR got it for Carding.. Yes they are in big trouble.. ok.. The
letter TNSHB put out see did while she was depressed and feeling bad.. and that
is how she saw it at the time she may want to recant a few things now but maybe
not... The second file The Truth.zip well thats the last thing it is.. Anyomous
who did that was sought after how do I know Well he called me 3:00am after the
bust at work and was dying to know what happened.. See he could not find out
anything cause everybody's bbs was down or it was to late to call.. So I filled
him in... In that letter he did he put an opion of mine in there that only him
and I knew about so I know it was him... Now the truth file may have some truth
in it but for the most part it is 3rd hand Info so dont beleive it.. Now with
that out of the way.. This does effect all of us in the pirateing community..
see first this net and most bbs's either have feds on them or soon will have
them here... They know who we are and what we are doing they are compiling a
lot of data.. and TNSHB kept tape recordings of those who called her and very
organized note which the feds have now... They did not get much from TGR...
also TNSHB and TGR are cooperating with FEDS in what they want.. They have to
bcause they are looking at a lot of time in Prison.. What would you do in thier
shoes.. Now the big question is what are the feds going to do about the piracy
situation.. I quess it is two soon to tell.. It is ashame that carding and the
other stuff gets releated to our hobby.. I tried to call kenneth welch and
peter beruk friday at the SPA and see if they would tell me anything but alls
they wanted was my phone number what a bunch of dick heads.. It is obvious they
dont want us to know what they are doing they dont want to help they just want
to bust people because they are laten Homsexuals with nothing better to do in
thier lives.. I am sure if they told me They were comming I would sell my pc
and find a new hobby and I am sure most of you would follow...  if you all have
any questions I will answer them or ask TNSHB & TGR to get your answers..
Vision will still carry on and we will start netting Monday also USA is not
dead but will suffer from this and probaly not be the contender it once was
time will tell.. Sysops close your systems to new users and delete dead wait
and those you do not know.. voice validate everyone. Later
Cool Hand

(