Just something I thought You'd be intrested in:

This comes straight from DoD "Small business Innovation Research 
(SBIR) Program , Program soliciation 92.2 , Closing Date 1JULY 1992"
Journal..

I'm going to assume that it's a sort of virtual "want list" for the
military. If anything, the concepts here are VERY intresting...

These are just excerpts. The book is approx. 200-300 pages long with
Army, Navy, and DARPA contributing ideas...

---------------
PAGE ARMY 68
TOPIC A92-098

TITLE: Application of Virtual Reality to Weapon System Concept 
Evaluation in a Distributed Simulation Environment

CATEGORY: Exploratory Development

OBJECTIVE: Develop an innovative approach to analyze and expand the 
applications of virtual reality to weapon system concept 
evaluations in the Battle Field Distributed Simulation environment.

DESCRIPTION:  Currently, weapon system concept evaluations in a 
Battlefield Distributed Simulation environment require physical 
mock-ups of the controls and displays of the crew stations. 
Construction and modification to these mock-ups is both expensive 
and time consuming.  Innovative solutions to the man-in-the-loop 
simulator-based weapon system concept evaluation such as creating 
virtual mock-ups of crew station controls and displays, are needed 
to reduce the time and cost of performing such evaluations.

    PHASE I: Develop cost effective man-machine interface 
    concepts/designs based upon virtual reality technological principles.
    [Ed: Didn't know there were ANY VR principles]

    PHASE II: Implement the man-machine concept in sufficient 
    detail to demonstrate the feasibility of concept.
-----------
PAGE ARMY 74
TOPIC A92-111   TITLE: Miniature Display Device Technology

CATEGORY: Exploratory Development

OBJECTIVE: Identify, develop and demonstrate display techniques 
potentially applicatble to head mounted displays. Goals are for 
high performance display technology capable of providing more than 
1000 lines of image in a very compact, lightweight, low power device.

DESCRIPTION: NEw concepts of providing visual information directly 
to the individual soldier including thermal images, video, maps, 
drawings, and text messages are limited by the lack of miniature 
displays that are acceptable in terms of performance, reliability, 
size, weight and power consumption.  This program should 
concentrate on alternative electro-optic mechanisims for producing 
a miniature virtual image display.

        PHASE I: Phase I should result in an alaysis of one ore 
more approaches to miniature image generating device technology and 
identifying specific techniques with potential application to video 
displays.  Simple proof-of-concept demonstrations of these 
techniques is a requirement and may take the form of static 
displays.  However, translation of the demonstrated approach must 
rbe reasonably shown to be applicaable to high resolution displays. 
SElection of prototypes will be made and approaches will be 
determined which satisfy objectives that are representatives of 
Army tactial situations.
        PHASE II: Phase II, a prototype display device having at 
least one million pixels will be demonstated.  The approach will be 
evaluated for further refinement and development of full color 
capability.  The end products should be capable of demonstration 
which video camera and computer inputs. Appproaches should be 
documented towards several Army needs and how the application of 
these techniques will be applied to Army Systems.
   Potential Commercial Market: Identified applications 
include the thermal weapons sight, Soldier's Integrated Protective 
Ensemble (SIPE) , maintenance and logistics applications, and 
telepresence displays for robotices applications.                            
   Commercial applications would include those areas where display 
technology requirements dictate small, lightweight and portable 
displays such as in inventory control and robotics.
--------------
TOPIC A92-173
PAGE ARMY 105

TITLE : Satellite Kill Mechanisms

CATEGORY: Basic Research

OBJECTIVE: Innovative concepts, designs and devices for ASAT 
appliaction to negate the functional capabilites of target 
satellites while minimizing the creation of space debris.

DESCRIPTION: A challenging techincal problem for the Kinetic Energy 
Anti-Satellite Program is to provide a high kill (target negation) 
probability that can be confirmed by the kill vehicle or the Space 
Surveillance Network, and not create unnecessary space debris in 
the process. For this purpose a kinetic energy kill device will be 
activated by the kill vehicle at close range to the target 
satellite. Alternative concepts and designs for kinetic energy kill 
mechanisms, devices to be used in conjunction with a kinetic energy 
kill mechanism in order to enhance kill effectiveness , and devices 
to determine kill effectivemness are being sought. Desirable 
qualities are large kill diameter, rapid fuzing, low size/weight, 
low power requirements, long term storage reliability , and low cost.
        PHASE I: A phase I effort will provide proof of concept by 
means of preliminary design, simulation, and/or laboratory 
experimentation.
        PHASE II: A phase II effort will include detailed design, 
fabrication, and evaluation of a working, but not necessarily 
optimized , breadboard , or brassboard model. Phase II proposals 
will also include an assessment of commercial markets for the 
devices developed during Phase II
        Potentional Commercial Market:  A Phase II effort will 
include hardware prototype developed to a state where it can be 
demonstated in an actual or simulated flight environment.

----------
DARPA 92-176    TITLE: Head and Hand Position Sensors for use with 
                       head mounted augmented reality systems
PAGE DARPA 25

CATEGORY: Exploratory Development

OBJECTIVE: To investigate, develop and demonstate innovetive 
technology/techniques for head and/or hand positioning sensors that 
could be used in conjunction with head mounted displays in 
augmented reality systems.

DESCRIPTION: Head mounted display systems require accurate and 
timely position information to coordinate movements of the head and 
ahnd with information displayed to the eye.  Current approaches are 
bulky, heavy, and inconvient to use. The frequently require an 
operator to remain in a stationary position and therefore limit 
mobility.  Siginificant improvments are needed in sensor position 
accuracy, update rates, weight, size and cost.
        PHASE I: Review applicable technologies and specify an 
effective development path for a prototype sensor which addresses 
the above reuquirements.
        PHASE II: build and test a prototype sensor(s).
--------
DARPA 92-177 TITLE: Eye Tracker Technology for Use with Head 
                    Mounted Displays

CATEGORY: Exploratory Development

OBJECTIVE: To investigate, develop, and demonstate , innovate 
technology/techinques for using eye trackers to remotely access 
computer databases.

DESCRIPTION: Field operatives of all kinds frequenctly need to 
review, consult, or search larege bodies of data (manuals, record, 
files) while conducting their missions. Efficient data access 
requires a method of computer interfacing which is rugged enoughn 
to be used in the field, is relatively unaffected by head an mody 
movement, is pleasant and comfortable to use, and uses the eye as 
an input device for a head mounted display.
        PHASE I: REview applicable technologies and specify an 
effective development path for a prototype system meeting these 
requirements. Show the feasibility of this approach.
        PHASE II: Build and test a prototype system.

-----------------------

Seems like Uncle Sam's going to be hitting some VR, huh? :)

  -- Cybernetik





