     ------------
     Anarchy Inc.    diffidently presents you with...
     ------------
 
                             Spinning Wheels
 
                      a story written by Someone Else
 
 
CHAPTER 1.    Spinning Wheels
 
 
     Myriads of different times, places, people, things, flowing past on the
way from nowhere to nowhen... moving in all directions, All.
     Welcome to Hilbert space, my friends... this is my domain; I live here.
 
     "C.C. to RPG...  clearance to H+, please notify?"
     The lone starship hung in an eternal void.
     "RPG.  leaving in 5 secs. confirm."
     It wavered, vanished.  The stars hung, bright points of light, uncaring.
 
     Nospace... it does not exist.  Yet it is the key to God.  Literally
speaking, the starship was there for a period of time that did not exist. Yet
it was there, and as such, it was everywhere.  A duration of time later, a
duration that cannot be measured because it does not exist, the starship
floated in orbit over a planet that hadn't been there before.
 
     "RPG.  C.C., can we have clearance to land?"
     A voice answered, "C.C.  Zone 4.  Come on down."
 
 
     A tall man in his mid thirties, Dave Grahan attracted little attention
walking down the left side of a crowded street.  These people didn't care. A
heavy mist floated near the ground, giving an ominous appearance to the
scenery.  Presently he found what he was looking for.  A finger tapped his belt
and barely discernable haze surrounded him.  Not looking like much, he was
proof against most hand held weaponry.  He opened a door and shivered under the
raw coldness surrounding.  The thing sitting at the far wall did nothing to
improve his mood.  Thotek micropaths never were noted for their friendliness.
     "I believe I have found the right place.  If you aren't TCS392A, illegally
cloned from Orginization genecodes, tell me why I shouldn't kill you."
     "You are Dave Grahan, Ax65232a, engaged in law enforcement activities,
near sector VvL Transcon Federal Outzone?"  The thing did not speak, the voice
whispered to him in the middle of his mind.
     "I am," he replied in the same manner.
     The admittance did nothing to lessen the cold detatchment with which it
regarded him.
     "You are currently searching for the one known as 'Chak,' am I not
correct?  And you desire information as to his whereabouts?"
     Grahan nodded, "Your sources are thorough.  Can you help me?"
     For a moment it almost seemed as if a twinkle of amusement passed through
its eyes.  "It is possible.  I would, however, exact something in return."
     "What, if I may ask?"
     "Nothing much.  I just desire a stake in the outcome.  Chak is a
dangerous creature.  I want is his soul."
     He laughed.
 
 
     Places, people, times... which one?  Ahh, there.  He made a decision, and
moved.  He picked a time, a space, and moved in.  Leaving Hilbert space behind.
 
 
     "We've got a fix on him, he's in H+, Outzone 2a67b, owned by IBM, software
division.  Do you suppose he's after that?"
     "Grahan, he could be after anything.  Keep your eyes open."
     Oh well, damn them anyway.  They couldn't help him.
     This IBM Outzone was a particularly spectacular place, populated more than
a thousand years ago by emigrants from the final Exodus, the one that left
Earth a ruin.  The only difference here is that these people retained their
technology.  From its central position, the system Corinth was in the logical
position to be the crossroads for that technology.  And it was to there that
Grahan chose to begin his search.
 
 
     Timeflow undulating around him, Chak writhed in discomfort as H+ shifted
slightly.  The realization filtered through that someone was after him.  Who?
Someone with power, to make an H+ shift...
     Ahh.  A game.
     He mentally shrugged and continued on with what he was doing.  He was not
worried; it's been a long time since they've tried, and never have they
succeeded. But soon it would be time to make his move.
 
 
     The Corinth Hilton, noted as the most expensive hotel on the planet, was
no pushover as far as luxury was concerned.  In addition to the necessary
opulence, a full function terminal even sat on the east wall in the study.
Grahan flipped it on and dialed the News.
 
 
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  C O R I N T H   S Y S T E M   N E W S
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
for Tuesday, December 14, 2877
 
BULLETINS:
 
SAVE 1. As for the assassination of Prime Minister Harold Leever yesterday,
        there is some speculation that it might coincide with the arrival of
        the Hilbert space religious cult.  From them we have no official
        comment.
 
     2. 4000 citizens having signed a petition on the water treatment plans
        for the Raighin Valley area, construction will begin in two months.
        The venture is estimated to cost $780,000.  Critics say it will be
        at least twice that much.
 
     3. Sensie porn star Luisa Holden has vanished; according to authorities,
        this is just another publicity stunt.  They're looking into it,
        however...
 
     4. The Corinth government geology department has officially apologized
        for the 11.2 magnitude earthquake you may have felt at 11:05 two
        days ago, one member being quoted as saying, "it was a mistake
        anyone could have made..."
 
     5. A six hour documentary on the life of the late Prime Minister
        Harold Leever will be presented tomorrow night at 9:00pm.
 
         ----------------------------------------------------------
                               CLASSIFIED
 
 
                INTERESTED IN BEING A MEDICAL OFFICER ON ONE OF
            THE MAJOR STARSHIP LINES?  YES, YOU TOO CAN FLY THE
            STARWAYS, CURING THE SICK.  WRITE TURING, 4938Z FOR
            YOUR FREE PAMPHLET.  WRITE TODAY! AND FLY TOMORROW!
 
                               ----------
 
                INVEST!!  INSTEL WANTS YOUR MONEY!  SEND NOW!!!
 
                               ----------
 
                ARE YOU FROM EARTH?  LET'S CORRESPOND! GIVE ME
            A CALL AT P37-7236TZK.. FRIENDSHIP IS JUST A CALL
            AWAY!!   PHOTO REQUIRED.
 
                               ----------
 
                 ATTENTION ALL! HILBERT SPACE RELIGIOUS MEMBERS
            ARE OPEN FOR RECRUITMENT.  IF YOU ARE FASCINATED BY
            THE WONDER OF INFINITY AND WEIRD SEX, CONTACT US,
            WE'RE WAITING FOR YOU.
 
                               ----------
 
                 P.K. WATCH OUT, YOU HAVE 10 DAYS TO LIVE.
                                        T.L.
 
                               ----------
 
                 ATTENTION K-MART SHOPPERS! THERE IS A BLUE-
            LIGHT SPECIAL TODAY ON USED BOWLING BALLS, ANYONE
            INTERESTED, PLEASE GO TO K-MART AND TAKE ADVANTAGE
            OF THIS SPECIAL OFFER!!
 
            ---------------------------------------------------
 
TODAY IN SPORTS:
 
        1. Northern Klandou plays Dix in international rugby...
 
 
 
 
     Grahan shut it off and from his opened briefcase, he removed a small black
object the size of a marble.  This marble fit nicely into a little indentation
in the base of his neck, hidden by a small amount of hair.  He laid himself
down on the bed, relaxed, and thought of nothing.  Presently images intruded
themselves upon his mind.
     The room he was in, as well as the entire physical universe we all occupy,
slowly melted away, to be replaced by the flowing everythingness of H+.  He
thought, and in thinking, he moved.  Planets and stars flowed past, equal in
rank to electrons and nucleotides.  The space here that was not space did not
care, energy that was music floated soundlessly across the plane of more than
two dimensions.  This had to be the place, he thought, somewhere here must be
the answer.  Mentally, he sat down to wait for that which he knew must soon
come.  A while later, yet a while that lasted no time at all, in the distance,
the mental latticework belonging to a powerful mind came into being.  It moved
towards him.  Before he had time to react, a strand brushed him.  He lost
consciousness.
 
     Black slowly turned gray, gray became white.  A room materialized.  There
were no doors, no windows, no outside.  A man dressed in a white lab coat said
hello.
     "Good morning?"
     "I see you are confused.  My name is Chak.  What you did was foolish, you
know."
     "How is that?" he asked, looking around him.  The room could have been
anywhere.
     "You have no idea of what I am, and without knowing, have no defense."
     He let a mild expression of fear cloud his face and mind while his eyes
wandered about the room.  They were nowhere, nowhere but in some hidden corner
of Chak's mind.  And Chak knew he knew this.
     "Won't you have a cup of tea?" Grahan gazed evenly at the preoffered tray.
     For a moment, an expression of self-doubt entered Chak's face and without
warning, a small vortex erupted around Grahan, carrying him away from the room.
His surprise masked only by mild indignation, Chak realized to himself that he
had let this happen.  He thought once more to himself, and he and the room
dissolved back into the primal energy from which it came.
 
 
     Grahan found himself in a familiar room on a nameless planet.  Facing him
from the far wall sat the very same Thotek micropath he had made a deal with
earlier.  From within his mind he heard a silent laughter.
     "David Grahan, you have won my help in this matter, but you have yet to
win my respect.  You are getting careless."  The laughter continued.
 
 
Coming soon, chapter two.
 
Call The Works BBS - 1600+ Textfiles! - [914]/238-8195 - 300/1200 - Always Open
 
