
--- Bumper Stickers Seen On The Information Superhighway

Rings of Saturn are made entirely of lost airline luggage.

The Earth is 98% full.  Please delete anyone you can.

He who laughs last is generally a bit slow.

Intel - still number 0.999873464508

"Bother," said Pooh, as he found a politician in his honey.

Sorry about the crayon.  They won't let me have sharp objects.

Styrofoam is shipped in ground-up environmentalists.

I have a rock garden.  Last week, three of them died.

Things you never hear people say; "Hand me that piano."

"Bother," said Pooh, and called in an air strike.

It's a SMALL war, can I have it?

Ambidextrose: able to put sugar in coffee with either hand.

Klingon prompt: strike any user when ready.

1024x768x256.... sounds like one mean woman.

If life hands you a lemon, break out the tequila and salt!

Then Q met Lorena - after which he was known as O.

This starship breaks for black holes and temporal disunities.

People like that are the reason we have middle fingers.

I left my tart in Aunt Fran's Crisco.

Hi.  I'm the tagline your mother warned you about.

The proverbial proprietor provides practical proverbs.

If it's not violent...what fun is it?

The gene pool could use a little chlorine.

In DoubleSpace no one can hear your data scream.

A single fact can ruin a good argument.

Please, no deja vu; I don't want to go through that again.

Disney World - a people trap operated by a mouse.

Hi, I'm a tagline.  When I grow up I'm gonna be a novel!

Please reply if you don't get this message.

This product sadistically tested on gerbils.

All stressed out and no one to choke.

"Bummer," said Pooh when Tigger dropped the joint in the honey jar.

The trouble with life is the lack of cool background music.

Some days you're the dog, some days you're the hydrant.

Next from Intel: the Repentium.

I did NOT escape....they gave me a day pass.

I plan to be a late bloomer - it's the only chance I've got.

"Why Johnny Can't Read" - Now available on VHS tape.

If not for politicians, we wouldn't NEED assault rifles.

G = Guns, PG = Plenty of Guns, PG13 = more than 12 guns.

Cat bathing is a martial art.

I'm not so much human as cat furniture.

Morals for sale, never used.  Contact Bill Clinton.

Democracy: 3 wolves and a sheep voting on what's for lunch.

I always wanted to be something, I wish I'd been more specific.

(c) Copywight Elmer Fudd.  All wights wesewved.

Sorry, my mind was on edible underwear today.

Mars needs women - no experience necessary!

"Bother," said Pooh as he strafed the lifeboats.

Yes, but you're taking the universe out of context.

Nobody ever forgets where he buried the hatchet.

You're about as subtle as an axe between the eyes.

Circular definition: see definition, circular.

I agreed to suspend disbelief, not hang it until it died!

...and if you think THAT'S weird...
                                                        
                                                             
