                               Light Bulb Jokes
 
 
 
                          THE CANONICAL COLLECTION OF
                               LIGHT BULB JOKES
     
     Q:  How many Californians does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Six.  One to turn the bulb, one for support, and four to relate to
     the experience.
     
     
     Q:  How many Oregonians does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Five. One to change the bulb, and four more to chase off the
     Californians who have come up to relate to the experience.
     
     
     Q:  How many New Yorkers does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A1:  None of your damn business!
     
     A2:  50!  50?  Yeah, "50" It's in the contract.
     
     
     Q:  How many WASPs does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two.  One to call the electrician and one to mix the martinis.
     
     
     Q:  How many data base people does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Three: One to write the light bulb removal program, One to write
     the light bulb insertion program and one to act as a light bulb
     administrator to make sure that nobody else tries to change the bulb.
     
     
     Q:  How many straight San Franciscans does it take to change a light
     bulb?
     
     A: Both of them.
     
     
     Q:  How many Zen masters does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two. One to and one not to change it.  Note: 1 to change and 1 not
     to change is fake Zen.  The true Zen answer is four.
     
     
     Q:  How many Carl Sagans does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Billions and billions.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                  Page 1 of 7
 
 
                               Light Bulb Jokes
 
 
 
     
     Q:  How many folk singers does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two: One to change the bulb, and one to write a song about how
     good the old light bulb was.
     
     
     Q:  How many surrealists does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two: One to hold the giraffe, and the other to fill the bathtub
     with brightly colored machine tools.
     
     
     Q:  How many gorillas does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Only one, but it sure takes a shitload of light bulbs!
     
     
     Q:  How many doctors does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Three: One to find a bulb specialist, one to find a bulb
     installation specialist, and one to bill it all to OHIP.
     
     
     Q:  How many psychologists does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  None, the bulb will change itself when it is ready.
     
     
     Q:  What is the difference between a pregnant woman and a light bulb?
     
     A:  You can unscrew a light bulb.
     
     
     Q:  How many managers does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Three: One to get the bulb and two to get the phone number to dial
     one of their subordinates to actually change it.
     
     
     Q:  How many IBM types does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  100.  Ten to do it, and 90 to write document number GC7500439-001
     Multitasking Incandescent Source System Facility, of which 10% of the
     pages state only "This page has been intentionally left blank", and
     20% of the definitions are of the form "A------" consists of sequences
     of non-blank characters separated by blanks".
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                  Page 2 of 7
 
 
                               Light Bulb Jokes
 
 
 
     Q:  How many Bratzlaver Chassidim does it take to change a light
     bulb?
     
     A: None.  They will never find one that burned as brightly as the
     first one.
     
     
     Q:  How many professors does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Only one, but they get three technical reports out of it.
     
     
     Q:  How many people from New Jersey does it take to change a light
     bulb?
     
     A: Three: One to change the bulb, one to witness, and the third to
     shoot the witness.
     
     
     Q:  How many psychiatrists does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Only one, but the bulb has got to really WANT to change.
     
     
     Q:  How many programmers does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  None. That's a hardware problem.
     
     
     Q:  How many Unix hacks does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  As many as you want; they're all virtual anyway.
     
     
     Q:  How many Bell Lab Vice Presidents does it take to change a light
     bulb?
     
     A:  That's proprietary information.  Answer available from AT&T on
     payment of license fee.
     
     
     Q:  How many graduate students does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Only one, but it may take upwards of five years for him to get it
     done.
     
     
     Q:  How many "Real Men" does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A1:  None. "Real Men" aren't afraid
     of the dark.
     
     A2:  None of your damn business!
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                  Page 3 of 7
 
 
                               Light Bulb Jokes
 
 
 
     
     
     Q:  How many "Real Women" does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  None.  A "Real Woman" would have plenty of real men around to do
     it.
     
     
     Q:  How many Jewish mothers does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  None. ("That's all right... I'll just sit here in the dark...")
     
     
     Q:  How many mice does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two. (Hint: they are small enough to fit inside)
     
     
     Q:  How many Pollocks does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Just one, but you need 6000 Russian troops in case he goes on
     strike!
     
     
     Q:  How many WASPs does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Silly,  WASPs don't screw in a light bulb, they screw in a hot
     tub.
     
     
     Q:  How many Marxists does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  None: The light bulb contains the seeds of its own revolution.
     
     
     Q:  How many Generals/Politicians does it take to change a light
     bulb?
     
     A:  1,000,001: One to change the bulb and 1,000,000 to rebuild
     civilization to the point where they need light bulbs again.
     
     
     Q:  How many med students does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Five: One to change the bulb and four to pull the ladder out from
     under him.
     
     
     Q:  How many Christians does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Three, but they're really one.
     
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                  Page 4 of 7
 
 
                               Light Bulb Jokes
 
 
 
     Q:  How many jugglers does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  One, but it takes at least three light bulbs.
     
     
     Q:  How many feminists does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  That's not funny!
     
     
     Q:  How many supply-siders does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  None.  The darkness will cause the light bulb to change by
     itself.
     
     
     Q:  How many supply-side economists does it take to screw in a
     lightbulb?
     
     A:  None.  If the government would just leave it alone, it would screw
     itself in.
     
     
     Q:  How many <ethnics> does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  10: One to hold the bulb and nine to rotate the ladder.
     
     
     Q:  How many strong <ethnics> does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  115:  One to hold the bulb and 114 to rotate the house.
     
     
     Q:  How many <ethnic> gods does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two: One to hold the bulb and the other to rotate the planet.
     
     
     Q:  How many cops does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  None. It turned itself in.
     
     
     Q:  How many nuclear engineers does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Seven: One to install the new bulb, and six to figure what to do
     with  the old one for the next 10,000 years.
     
     
     Q:  How many lawyers does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  How many can you afford?
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                  Page 5 of 7
 
 
                               Light Bulb Jokes
 
 
 
     
     Q:  How many football players does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  The entire team!  And they all get a semester's credit for it!
     
     
     Q:  How many lesbians does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Three: One to screw it in, and two to talk about how much better
     it is than with a man.
     
     
     Q:  How many federal employees does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Sorry, that item was cut from the budget!
     
     
     Q:  How many brewers does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  One-third less than for a regular bulb.
     
     
     Q:  How many accountants does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  What kind of answer did you have in mind?
     
     
     Q:  How many economists does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two:  One to change the bulb, and the other to assume the ladder.
     
     
     Q:  How many civil servants does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  45: One to change the bulb, and 44 to do the paperwork.
     
     
     Q:  How many mystery writers does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two:  One to screw it almost all the way in and the other to give
     it a surprising twist at the end.
     
     
     Q:  How many existentialists does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Two:  One to screw it in and one to observe how the light bulb
     itself symbolizes a single incandescent beacon of subjective reality
     in a netherworld of endless absurdity reaching out toward a cosmos of
     nothingness.
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                  Page 6 of 7
 
 
                               Light Bulb Jokes
 
 
 
     Q:  How many junkies does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Who says it's dark?
     
     
     Q:  How many consultants does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  I'll have an estimate for you a week from Monday.
     
     
     Q:  How many U.S. Marines does it take to change a light bulb?
     
     A:  50:  One to screw in the bulb and 49 to guard him.
     
     
     Q:  How many members of the Impossible Missions Force does it take to
     change a light bulb?
     
     A:  Five:  While Cinnamon creates a diversion by wearing a skimpy
     dress I use a tiny narcotic dart to knock out the fascist dictator and
     remove his  body.  Rollin, wearing a plastic mask, masquerades as the
     dictator long enough for Barney to sneak up to the next floor, drill a
     hole down into the light fixture, remove the burned-out bulb, and
     replace it with a new super-high wattage model of his own design. 
     Meanwhile, Willie has driven  up to the door in a laundry truck.  Just
     before Rollin's real identity is revealed, we escape to the laundry
     truck, drive to the airfield, and  return to the United States!!!
     
     
     Q:  How many technical writers does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Just one, provided there's a programmer around to explain how to
     do  it.
     
     
     Q:  How many Harvard students does it take to screw in a light bulb?
     
     A:  Just one.  He holds the light bulb and the universe revolves
     around  him.
     
                                    THE END
                                                                           
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                                  Page 7 of 7
 
 
 
